The spirit of sporting competition has been destroyed by the amount of money now associated with most sports

Nobody can deny that today corruption is practically everywhere: no matter what area, money play a huge and not always fair role in our life. Unfortunately, such an inviolably uncorrupted area as sport is in danger too because of great money signifying more than talent and hard work sometimes. In my opinion, the real spirit of sporting competition is now impossible to exist because of the power of money. To my mind, a great amount of money destroys the fair spirit by supporting illegal medical interference and by turning sport simply into a show, not a competition.
Firstly, a rather urgent and scandalous topic today is about prohibited medicine sportsmen take to become physically stronger and therefore kill the spirit of fair competition. Of course, such operations with taking medication and undergoing obligatory tests successfully require plethora of money and, I believe, the government’s support. For example, some years ago the USA were accused of having a system of providing sportsmen with doping and bribing the ‘independent’ testing committee. How can we talk about the spirit of sporting competition when the richer the country is, the easier it is for her to hide unfair money operations in sport?
Secondly, the most popular sports like football often turn into a show entertaining spectators by the beauty of sportsmen, their fame and money they earn, not by their sport talent. The easiest way to prove it is to analyze the behavior of the Russian football team during their last match of the Euro 2016. Our extremely well-paid sportsmen didn’t manage to show any interest in playing and after their shameful loss organized a great party, wasting money they have earned practically for nothing. No spirit of sporting competition – only money.
To conclude, I agree with those who say that money is the reason of anything anywhere and sport is a deeply corrupted area now. Money make doping available, money turn spot into a show and this destroys the spirit of sporting competition. I strongly believe that we should save sport as an ancient evidence of integrity subject to talent and hard work, not money.
