The spirit of sporting competition has been destroyed by amount of money…

Sport is very old type of activity that is becoming more and more popular every century so far. It appeared in old China in 40th century BC. Today professional sport is watched by many millions of people. This makes sports industry very profitable. Professionals get very high salary even not winning competitions. Some say that this fact ruins sporting spirit, and money are destroying sport nowadays. I am going to try to disapprove this point of view in this essay. In my opinion money help to popularize sport, what is good for society overall.
First of all, I want to consider that much money from showing competitions (TV, radio, tickets etc.) are going back to sport to improve equipment and other stuff. Equipment level is very important cause it is giving more capabilities for athletes plus it is decreasing the level of injuries. Injuries are the risk side of sport and it is very sad when perspective athlete was injured and this destroyed his\her career. The more entertaining sport is the more people will be in it. So when we drop the probability of damage to athletes and making their potential higher it is good thing for sport, society and humanity at all. So this influence of money has no negative impact on competitive spirit.
My second point is about salaries of sport professionals. Sport is the type of activity that can be: Hobby, game, job, and so on. We are talking about case when sport is the job of person. So if you are not capable to win you should earn at least some money for living. And when there are no competitions you need to have stable salary or it cannot be job.  So athlete’s abilities will be restricted, because they will not have much time to train for competitions. If there are no competitions, or it will be less interesting people will not watch it and interest in sport will be cut down. This is bad thing for health and other sides of lifestyle. 
The last, but not least thing, which I want to describe motivation of sporting spirit. When there was no money in sports, the psychologic motivation of competitions was some kind of popularity and ambitions. Today if you will be good in competing others you will earn money and this is additional motivation not so strong as first two but working at all aspects of sport starting from training and ending with food ration. So it cannot substitute the first two, because they are biological provided ones. So in that case sport added motivation to work harder than ever.
In the end I want to conclude some points. All biological and psychological sides of sport I cannot approve because it is not in my competence. But this is some thoughts extracted from living experience. I think that big amount in sport is very good, and I will be very happy if this tendency will continue.
