The spirit of sporting competition has been destroyed by the amount of money now associated with most sports. How far do you agree with this statement?

	Sports have always been a part of people’s lives. For a long time people from all around the world have gathered to witness a game. They still do, but nowadays, in my opinion, it has become more of a business meeting than an actual competition.
	The meaning of sport isn't just the immediate spectacle; the adrenaline rush attached to experiencing the suspense and the extremity of human capability. It's also because of the broader context in which we place sporting performance. We love the statistics; the records; the local derbies and historical personal rivalries; Bradman's unsurpassable batting average; Michael Jordan's untouchable achievements; the triumphs and tragedies of Phar Lap, Tiger Woods, and Les Darcy. Sport is pervasive through all modern cultures. Its legacies form a critical part of our understanding of what we hold in common and how we connect to our history. 
	If we look up on the Internet how much money sport stars do actually earn, we would be horrified. They earn billions of dollars for one game even if they don’t win it. Because of that the majority of players don’t tend to try harder. They can even lose on purpose if they know that they’re getting paid. The government spends a lot of money on them because they create a good image for the country. In 2014, the global sports industry was estimated to be worth $US1.5 trillion. We are not any more witnessing something pure. We are being sold a product.
	Sport elevates our spirits, because what we see is people doing extraordinary, sometimes impossible things, for no reason other than the thrill of achievement. The purity of motivation and intent, coupled with the excitement of competition and buzz of winning or losing, gives us something we can't get any other way.
	My point is that the meaning of sports was always illusory. There were always huge companies standing behind teams and making business out of them. I think that we are kidding ourselves if we think that this industry was ever something honest and pure. It has always been destroyed by all that money now it is just easier to notice.
