There are many art lovers in modern world. People tend to choose it as their full-time job. Some of them make huge sums of money on art, while others can barely make their living. The question is: Should governments take steps to resolve this unfair situation? 
On the one hand, nowadays rich people who want to become artists have promoters who push them forward to fulfill the dream to become famous. And even if you are an artists without an obvious talent, you can stand out with the help of your communications and money.  Such people have the point to become famous, because they have enough money already.  Though, on the other hand, there are examples that show how successful companies promote poor but talented artists. In this case a person should have real abilities to produce art. He or she will have to work hard and to be different from others. But, of course, such promoters cannot take under the wing all the talented people. And that is why some people are sure that governments should control such unfair situations.
However, people often forget that governments have many other responsibilities. If they start to control modern artists and their earnings, who wold control economic, social and political situation in the country? I think that it is hard to disagree that the governments of the world have more serious problems than worrying about incomes of the artists. 
As for me, I believe that artists who earn huge amounts of money on their works do so for a reason. And the government do not have to control them. They are the best of what they do, because it is very difficult to stand out from the others in modern world. There is a famous saying 'no matter how badly you paint, as long as your creation is not bad as others'. 
Taking into consideration all mentioned above, I am sure that that it is fine that some artists are paid well for their efforts. Those who want to become rich must work hard for it. Governments do not need to take measures to make the playing field equal. 
