It is estimated, that some artists, who are working in the field of contemporary arts, are overrated and much more money than others. Some people suppose that it is a huge problem and only some new laws could solve it. However, this essay is aimed at proving that this opinion is not sensible enough.
On the one hand, the situation when some artists are neglected for no reason is totally unfair. In this sphere linkages play a huge role in having a successful career path.  Thus, often talented artists, who do not have connection with powerful people, are just ignored. For example, many famous painters were appreciated for their pieces of art only after their death. Being geniuses they spent their lives in neglect. Furthermore, this injustice nips in the bud a will of young talented people to become artists. As a consequence, this profession is becoming less popular. Nowadays it is perceived as a dead-end job.
On the other hand, it is quiet normal that earns more money for the creative job. Due to the fact, that the pinch of subjectivism will always be in this kind of job, it is inevitable, that someone will be under-appreciated. That is the main reason why governments are not able to influence this situation. They just cannot give valid evidences for estimating somebody’s work as a better one than somebody else’s. Therefore they cannot have an influence on distribution of money in this sphere. Moreover, maybe unfairly under-paid artists are not that impeccable as we thought. In most cases an artist is earning little money, because his works are lightweight. In addition, there are already some programs which are designed to financially encourage budding artists, which makes it easier to them to achieve something.
To sum it up, I strongly believe, that the problem of assessing giftedness of an artist cannot be solved by the government. Also in spite of the fact that there is a lot of injustice in the sphere of art, there are still plenty of talented people, who have achieved their goals without any connections and it gives us hope that art is more than just earning money.
