 Through the history our society has been always divided between more and less successful, famous, rich in every sphere of human activity, including the art. There is a truth that some modern artists receive sums bigger than others even though the works of both of them can be equally impressive. Some people blame on the government for this inequality and believe that it should take any actions to resolve this unfair situation. Does it make sense to blame on the government in this question? And if the answer is yes, what kind of steps the government would take? This essay examines this issues from all over the sides.
First of all, this is the popular fact that some talented artists have to struggle to survive. From the one hand, this situation depends on the promotion. If you have not got any producers, who provide you with the information about expositions and valuable meetings, there is a high probability, that your work will not be seen somebody else with exception of yourself. Secondly, when it comes to popularity,  which is paramount to your income, the style has a large impact on it. Even though your works are pretty good, they are not distinguishable among each other and as a result they have demand smaller than that which are not so professional, but unusual and attractive.  on the assumption of this reasons of inequality on the art market, it can be seen that the government does not play any role in this question and its intervention will be useless.
But this issue can be considered from the other side. The government must provide its citizens with the salaries that will be enough for existence and due to this, it takes responsibility for the surviving of artist too. So from the other hand, it must take care for different places where artists could demonstrate their works to produce themselves. For instance, the government can organize free expositions or special art-markets, that will be accessible for every creator.
Personally, I believe that the government should take any steps to improve the productions the art of infamous artists and reduce the gap between them and more successful and rich. But there is no guaranty that it will be effective.
