Computers have become an inalienable part of our life. Even children use them for playing or chatting.  In that case may people raise the alarm about harmful effect of computer on young generation. But while it is so popular to accuse computers in all problems, I think we may profit from early “friendship” with technology.

One of the biggest drawbacks of computers is that they seem to be very attractive for children. Bright pictures, loud funny music easily catch attraction. Instead of communicating with friends, walking with parents and doing homework children spend their time playing videogames, which are often very violent. Such pastime could backfires childs’ mind and make them rude, cruel and evil.

People who fight against computers have to agree that technologies have many huge prospects in educational sphere and this is what I can call undeniable truth. Searching information, looking for rare books, possibility of studying at home are not the only benefits of computers in students’ lives.  Some people would argue that in the past everyone did all this things in libraries. However, how much time did people spend for this? Another positive thing about computers is that they safe our time. Two clicks, and everything we need is in our hands. In twenty first century the pace of life is fast, blistering, and technologies must correspond.  Eventually, robotics all spheres of our life is inevitable.

Despite of this, we cannot deny that exploring technologies as soon as possible is very important. 
We all use them, and like many others, I connected my life with computers in primary school, which is not really early. Modern young generation in my age would know about computers much more than me. This knowledge is definitely making their lives better and easier, and they would not imagine world without technologies. 

Apparently, children have to learn to use computers. Having said that, I cannot help not to mention that there are mainly benefits that young generation could get with technologies.
