Neural networks have become a very hot and hyped topic nowadays. But while it is catching so much attention, I also think it may be overrated in some way. This essay aims at discussing prosand cons of neural networks popularity.
One of the biggest drawbacks of neural networks is that they are not able to give a precise answer, all neural nets work with a small percentage of error. This can become a huge problem, for example, when we use this method to diagnose a case. People who are studying neural nets have to endure this problem and accept error likelihood, and this is what makes neural nets inconvenient to use for many situations, when we need a precise answer. Some people would argue that this disadvantage will convince data scientists to give up on this topic.
Another problem is that we cannot describe precisely the algorithm which it uses in order to make a specific decision. For instance, recently google has made a breakthrough in th sphere of human language translation with the help of machine learning. This system clustered all semantic features that exist in all languages. But, eventually, they got no explanation of why these semantic were clustered in this way.
Despite all these arguments, I cannot deny that this method still has a great presence and future.
We all should continue studying neural nets, and like many others, I strongly believe that this method gives us plenty of breakthroughs and insights in different spheres of life, which gives us a chance to make developments in many scientific subjects as well as in every day life. There are also a lot of oncoming projects, provided for natural language processing, for example, or at the same time for making grey movies colorful. That is an impressive range of tasks for a single method! Finally, it is an opportunity to learn for free how to write neural networks yourself that I am fond of the most.
Apparently, neural networks are a budding and very promising field of studies. Having said that, I cannot help assuming the fact that there are mainly benefits that makes that excitement for this ambitious technology.