Social networks has become more popular. But while it helps people find new friends and keep in touch with them, I also think it may affect on the future generations, on our children and their real, not virtual communication skills.
One of the biggest drawbacks of social networks is that people become less spend time together. And even people meet with each other and sit in a cafe, they often watch the news on social networks or check messages without paying attention to each other sitting in front of them. People who spend a lot of time chatting on social networks or posting photos in Instagram or something similar have to protect themselves from this, and this is what should make every person. If you have at least half of such social networks as Instagram, Facebook, Vkontakte, Swarm, Tumblr or Snapchat, you should delete some of these. Some people would argue that social networks do not take away their time. Another excuse is that social networks help people to maintain relationships and help always be aware of all the events and news. Eventually, people miss all the events, because they forget about it, they do not notice how time flew, while they are browsing the Internet.
Despite all these facts, I cannot deny that social networks help us to keep in touch with friend from different cities and countries. We (all) have accounts in Facebook and Instagram, and like many others, I have an accounts too, which help me in different situations. For example, I always know my schedule and home tasks if I sick.
There are also people who have account in Vkontakte, provided that there they only have business chats with their colleagues.
Finally, it is the best way to use social networking sites is that we are always in touch. It is argument that I  accept most.
Apparently, social networks really help some people more than they disturb. Having said that, I cannot help stop to use the Internet and all of its sites because there are mainly benefits that also point to the usefulness of the emergence of social networks in our world.
