Online learning has become a popular way of studying. Courses on the Internet are gradually replacing classes at schools and universities. But while this method of learning is rooting into the education system, I also think it may lead to bad consequences.
One of the biggest drawbacks of E-learning is that sometimes it is very difficult to make up your mind to start online courses. People who completely or at least partially have switched to this form of learning have to overcome laziness every day, and this is what is considered the biggest problem of online learning. When choosing which method of education is better the question of motivation arises. If you take online courses, you have to motivate yourself, whereas at schools and universities teachers do it. It is easier if somebody inspires you to learn different subjects. Some people would argue that motivating yourself is hard and do not consider that it is a problem.
Another drawback of online learning is that the checking of knowledge is not always well thought out. Exercises can be not very difficult and interesting. They are automatically checked and that is why it is impossible to offer people taking courses something creative. Eventually, the work can be evaluated improperly because of errors in the system and people do not know whether they have solved the problem well or not.
Despite these drawbacks, I cannot deny that online learning is a breakthrough in the education system. Nowadays we are all connected with computers, we use them every day, and like many others, I find online learning very convenient, which makes it more attractive. You can independently manage your schedule and do exercises wherever and whenever you like. There is also a nice bonus, provided you complete the course: you can get a certificate, which can supplement your portfolio. Finally, online learning is the form of education that I like most as it has more pluses than minuses.
Apparently, online learning will be able to replace a familiar way of studying in the future. Having said that, I cannot help people who against this process and that there are mainly benefits that make E-learning more sought-after.
