Moving abroad has become very common among families these days. Hundreds of people want to leave their native country and start to live somewhere else. But while it seems obvious for some people that this phenomenon has only positive effect on our life, I also think it may not suit everybody.

One of the biggest drawbacks of moving to foreign country is that it can be quite challenging for some people because of their patriotic feelings. People who tend to long for home and friends will have to somehow learn to deal with it, and this is what may become a serious difficulty for their adaptation in any foreign country. Some people would argue that it can be handled easily and will not become a great problem, especially after some time that you will spend in a new country.

Another disadvantage of leaving your native country is that you might face some problems with language. If you move to a country where everyone speaks language you don’t know it will be a huge deal even to find a way to the closest supermarket, for example. Eventually, you will somehow learn how to communicate with foreigners, but at first it may cause you some troubles.

Despite all these facts, I cannot deny that over the last years we have seen the rise of immigration to different countries. We (all) have always been intrigued by life abroad, and like many others, I think living in a foreign country is a great experience, which you should never reject. Living abroad is the best way to develop your knowledge about that country, understand its culture and traditions, meet new people. There are also a lot of chances to practice and, of course, improve your English, provided with the fact that it is an international language nowadays and you can be understood practically everywhere. Finally, it is a great idea to try moving abroad if you want to become more responsible, which is especially relevant for students, and this is an argument that I like most. 

Apparently, moving abroad is a very controversial question and there are a lot of arguments on both sides of the debate. Having said that, I cannot help but to believe that there are mainly benefits that outweigh its seeming drawbacks.
