Graffiti has very popular nowadays. But while it can be unarguably beautiful, I also think it may be vulgar and ugly. 
One of the biggest drawbacks of graffiti is that often people consider bad words and inappropriate drawings to be suitable for the city. People who draw graffitis need to remember that there are a lot of people living in the same area besides themselves. Children, elders. It can be unpleasant for them to see vulgar pictures, sometimes even featuring a nude person. Before doing something you always need to think about consequences and how your actions will affect the others. Some people would argue that graffiti should be forbidden and that people who draw them need to be punished.
Another disadvantage of graffitis is that even if the drawing is very beautiful, it can be done in a wrong place. Because of that the architecture of the city can be ruined. These drawings can also ruin the building on which they are drawn. Eventually these pictures fade, because of the weather and time and become unrecognizable and no one redoes them. That can also ruin picturesque of the city.
Despite everything people say about graffitis and people who draw them, I cannot deny that they can be done with such technique and professionalism that you cannot help but wonder how one person managed to do that. Especially when it is on the wall of the high building. I have seen a lot of works from unknown artists, in my home town and in other cities all over the world. There are also a lot of cases, when an artist, who has displayed his or hers works on the street, is being noticed by an art gallery, provided they know his or hers identity. Finally, it is the ability to express yourself and your thoughts through your works, without being involved in bureaucracy and chasing money, is that I love most about graffiti. 
Apparently, graffiti is a topic that has a lot of different opinions flowing around it. Having said that, I cannot help but to say that I wholly approve of this form of art. I believe, that as long as it is decent, graffiti has much more benefits than you can imagine.
