Online education has become one of the popular methods to increase your qualification. That is why many universities offer students to run an online course in addition to formal disciplines. But while it can be very helpful experience, I also think it may have significant disadvantages.

One of the biggest drawbacks of online courses is that they do not provide students with enough checking and feedbacks. People who join online courses have to control and check themselves, and this is what cannot bring positive outcome unless students are experienced in this area. Some people would argue that this argument does not work if student is motivated enough. In this case, he or she will be attentive to all lectures without any checking and control from tutors.

Another disadvantage of online courses during formal education is that it takes a lot of time and students spend their time listening a lecture instead of doing homework. Eventually, online courses can be very diverting.

Despite these drawbacks, I cannot deny that online courses bring a lot of advantages to students. We (all) do not like to spend our time on commuting from home to university, and like many others, I would rather take a lecture as part of an online course than as part of formal education, if I had an opportunity. I believe that it would be a great pleasure to have a course which would save my time and money. When it comes to education process, there are also some pluses, provided with strong arguments. For example, some courses have a forum that replaces feedbacks from a tutor. Furthermore, running a course in cozy and tranquil place improves the process of perception and lector’s speech does not seem dull as in it is in a classroom. Finally, it is possible to repeat lection if you miss important information and it is that I find efficient the most.

Apparently, blending online courses is convenient way to get an education and I believe that they have to be a part of universities programs. Having said that, I cannot help but agree that there are mainly benefits that overweigh drawbacks.

