Recently online learning has become rather popular among students from universities all over the world and adults who want to improve their knowledge. But while it is just becoming to catch public’s attention and just starting to boost interest of society, I also think it may be still not the best way of learning, but worth giving it a try.

One of the biggest drawbacks of studying online is that it becomes rather hard to a student to receive a real feedback from a teacher due to the fact that in the majority of cases it is just a computer program checking your exercises or computing your progress during the course. People who are looking for a piece of advice have to put a huge effort in connecting with someone who can help, and this is what makes distant learning very inconvenient. Some people would argue that online learning is in general helpful.

Another opinion is that distant learning is one of the best ways to develop some skills. While a person studies online, he or she can repeat materials which are unclear or rewind lecture video if he or she did not get something. Moreover, online learning implies that all students learn a lot by themselves and are enticed to search for some information, which actually makes them learn a subject through their own experience. That is a very rewarding method of studying. Eventually, online learning is definitely worth trying.

Despite all of the arguments against distant learning, I cannot deny that for many people it actually works better than other ways of learning. We all at some point have tried studying online, and like many others, I try to accomplish one of such courses now, which gives me a new interesting experience of learning and, which is also relevant, it teaches me to be motivated and gritty. There are also plenty of advantages there, provided the fact that a student has a strong will to learn. Finally, it is the fact that it is rather affordable or even free way to study that I like the most.

Apparently, distant learning has both bright and dark sides. Having said that, I cannot help assuming that there are mainly benefits, that make drawbacks pale in comparison with them. That is why, people should pay more attention to that type of learning.
