There are presented two diagrams, the first picture gives us the representation of the structure of a fish pie, whereas the second one is the scheme of the commercial production of fish pie. Overall, a fish pie consists of four ingredients: peas, fish, sauce and potato. As for a marketable condition, a fish pie is been sold in a microwaveable container. Getting down to the production process, it is worth being mentioned that cooking of a fish pie has two separate lines of a product preparation. Preparation and cooking of potato is a separated process, consisted of six stages from cleaning to incoming of chilled potato to the store. Cooked potato is usually been added to an almost ready fish pie before wrapping. As for the differences between two lines (except the specialization on potato, which was said earlier), the duration of a delivery process is not the same: potatoes come to a factory up to one month, no one preparing stage is not taken into account, whereas fresh salmon delivery plus adding lemon juice and salt take no more than 12 hours. The waste disposal on two production lines is at one of the first stages of preparation, but potato peeling as a cause of wastes is been done automatically, whereas removing skin and bones of salmon is a manual work. It might be true that waste disposal is been done manually too. Furthermore, removing is as important that another one manual work here is to inspect, whether everything was done correct and safe for consumers. Two stages on the second production line between inspecting and adding potato are adding sauce and peas. There is no any information about the production of such ingredients at the same factory, so we can conclude that these products are usually been bought from other factories. So, before trade deals there are four general stages: a preparation of salmon, adding peas and sauce, preparation of potato and adding of potato. The next stage is wrapping, wrapped products should be freezed before dispatching. As for dispatching, not all ready pies are delivered to other shops. Probably, there is a local store near a factory which is named the same as a factory is.
To cum up, commercial production of a fish pie is a difficult and complex process with several stages, not all ingredients are made at the factory and there must be definite stages of wrapping before dispatching.
