Frankenstein by Mary Shelley
Review by Lena Pasalskaya
In 1816, when Mary Shelley was only 18 years old, she with her husband spent a summer with Lord Byron, John William Polidori, and Claire Clairmont near Geneva, Switzerland, where one day Byron proposed that they "each write a ghost story". Shelley was familiar with the scientific progress and discoveries about electricity at the time. In the late 18th century Luigi Galvani had shown that frogs legs could be ‘brought back to life’ by stimulating the muscles with electrical sparks. This was the starting point for  Marry Shelley`s novel. Frankenstein  belongs to the genre of Gothic fiction,  which is combine romance and horror. 
The story begins  and ends in the Arctic with Walton`s letters. Captain Robert Walton explores the North Pole and writes to his sister. It takes place during an unspecified time, as the letters` dates are shown as “17–“. During the voyage the crew notices a gigantic figure in a dog sled. Some time later the crew helps no to die a man named Victor Frankenstein. The stranger decides to tell his story in order to warn Captain, who seeks for knowledge and wisdom, as once as Frankenstein did.
Victor begins by telling of his childhood. Born into a wealthy Geneva family, Victor and his brothers, Ernest and William, are curious to seek a greater understanding of the world through science. At university, he keens on chemistry and other sciences, soon developing a secret technique to impart life to non-living matter, which eventually leads to his creation of the Monster, which is hideous. Victor falls ill from the experience and his childhood friend, Henry Clerval, helps Victor to recover. Then he returns home, when he learns of the murder of his brother Whilliam. The court finds Justine, William's nanny, guilty. But Victor understands that the real killer – the Monster.
The Creature meets Victor and tells him that learned to speak owing to one family, in whose barn he lived. Despite his hideous appearance, he approached the family in hopes of becoming their friend, but they were frightened and fled their home.  The Monster asks Victor to create a female companion like himself. The Creature promises he and his mate will vanish and will never appear again, if Victor keeps his promise. Victor starts to do his work, but later reflects on the consequences of such a union and destroys the body of the female creature. The Monster furious vows revenge. Back in Geneva depressed Victor marries his childhood friend Elizabeth, but the Creature murders her. Seeking revenge, Victor pursues the Monster to the North Pole. Frankenstein is ultimately destroyed by his own creation and the Monster then destroys itself because it has the sensibilities of a human and does not want humanity to know of its existence.
In essence the tale is a warning that meddling with nature is not a part of the natural order of things and that it will end in tragedy. The science can be put to good or evil use, depending on the motives of scientists. Frankenstein`s intentions are good in his own mind, but the results are definitely evil and Shelley`s tale is a cautionary one.
In my opinion, it`s a wonderful book, rather gripping, that I was hooked from the very beginning. Moreover, the plot was intriguing, that it was impossible to predict how it would end. And of course it`s a thought-provoking novel that raised many interesting questions. Shelley wrote a number of others novels, but they became forgotten. Nevertheless, Frankenstein  was such a powerful story that it set the benchmark for horror.
