Nineteen Eighty-Four by George Orwell
The novel “1984” was written by George Orwell after World War II and published in 1949. It is possibly the most well-known and influential book describing a dystopian society. During the war George Orwell believed that democracy in Great Britain will not last. His fears resulted in writing “1984” and his famous political satire – “Animal Farm”.
The book is set in possible future in a year 1984. The place is London in Oceania – one of the three states that the world is divided into. Three states are in perpetual war with each other over a disputed territory. The official ideology in totalitarian Oceania is English Socialism or “Ingsoc”. The society is divided into three classes: Inner Party – the upper class, Outer Party – the middle class and Proles – the lower working class. Party members are under constant surveillance of ever-present “telescreens” and are also watched by their family members or coworkers. If you commit a “thoughtcrime” the “thought police” is going to punish you. The system can be described by its slogans: “WAR IS PEACE, FREEDOM IS SLAVERY, IGNORANCE IS STRENGTH”.
The main character is an Outer Party member Winston Smith. He lives alone in his small apartment and works in the Ministry of Truth. His job is to “revise” history by rewriting old articles and altering photographs so they support the Party line. The government constantly changes their “truth”. For example, one day Oceania may be at war with Eastasia but the next day it is at war with Eurasia and it always has been. People not only have to believe what government tells them, but they have to know it and hate their new enemy with the same strength as the previous one. Winston secretly hates the system he lives in. He can’t force himself to believe what obviously is not true. He is not able to feel hate towards enemies of the state and during the mandatory Two Minutes Hate he is horrified by cruel and animalistic behaviour of other Party members.
Author uses third-person narrative but we know only what Winston knows. We follow his experience, his emotions. With Winston we discover mysteries of what’s really going on in this world in “the Book” written by Emmanuel Goldstein – enemy of the Party. We read his attempts at writing a diary.
Winston falls in love with his fellow Party member – Julia. He discovers that she also hates the Party. They start a dangerous love affair in the system where love may only be for the Big Brother. 
One of the most memorable scenes for me was when during his and Julia’s secret meetings Winston hears a prole woman sing. The song is a popular one that was released by the Party and it’s lyrics have no actual meaning but woman’s singing is emotional and Winston is deeply touched by it. He is struck by the thought that this seemingly unattractive old woman seams beautiful to him. I think, that this episode is very powerfully written: “The mystical reverence that he felt for her was somehow mixed up with the aspect of the pale, cloudless sky, stretching away behind the chimney-pots into interminable distance.”
While reading the novel I found rather interesting the concept of "Newspeak" - official language of Oceania. This language is based on English but has poor vocabulary and primitive grammar. Government gradually simplifies "Newspeak" and eliminates more words so the future generations wouldn’t have the ability to have complex and forbidden thoughts.
“1984” is one of the most impressive and thought-provoking books I have ever read. Masterful writing transferred me to the depressing yet intriguing world of the novel. While reading I felt completely immersed and every turn of Winston’s story brought various strong emotions. Author’s view of the possible future made me see our history and our present in a different light. Also it was interesting to realize how “1984” influenced modern culture and to understand where the “Big Brother” comes from or what the term “Orwellian” means.
I would definitely recommend this novel to everyone. If you want to know what is behind the door number 101 in the Ministry of Love, why “2 + 2 = 5” and a lot more you should read “Nineteen Eighty-Four”.
