Ray Bradbury’s “Fahrenheit 451˚”
           “We cannot tell the precise moment when friendship is formed. As in filling a vessel drop by drop, there is at least a drop which makes it run over, so in a series of kindnesses there is at last one which makes the heart run over”.
            For the protagonist of the book the acquaintance with Clarisse McClellan proves to be that very drop which initially fills Guy Montag’s heart and then makes it run over. Late in the evening walking home after work Guy Montag, a fireman, comes across a girl who’s been wandering around and seems to be hypnotized by something in Montag’s appearance, while Montag himself is gazing at the girl with tireless curiosity. They begin talking and now Guy is ascertained that she is one-of-a-kind, completely different from the rest of the society: sensitive to humans and nature, wise and friendly, thoughtful and broadminded. Their first meeting is followed by several more, during which Clarisse talks about the times when firemen used to be fighters against fire or other objects which were set on fire rather than those burning things, about schools, where children never ask questions and are just poured at with answers, about kids killing each other, about people who do not know what grass is, or flowers, or dew on the grass in the morning...And then Clarisse disappears, having turned what is inside Guy Montag, his life. It seems that now he looks at the reality in a completely different way and is ready to change everything totally... 
            “Fahrenheit 451˚” is set at unspecified time in the future in an undefined American town. The dystopia of that time is presented through the eyes of the protagonist. This is the time of parlor walls (wall-size televisions installed instead of walls), mechanical dogs, television-teachers, enormous billboards which are totally covered with adverts. This is the time when people are jailed for driving too slow so that to see what is going around, when no woman thinks about having a baby, when people are indifferent to each other. It is the time, when firemen are obliged to burn books by law in order to suppress dissidence and people's ability to think. 
               The whole story is about the evolution of the protagonist, the transformation of his way of thinking. At the beginning of the story he approves of the reality of his time, he is loyal to what is going around. However, the meeting with Clarisse is a turning point. Now that he realizes how oppressive the atmosphere is, what processes are taking place, we can watch the main hero in conflict with the reality, Guy Montag is determined to free himself from the society and authorities that hold great sway over him. The crowning moment of the book is that very moment when Montag realizes that a man is behind each book. A man have to think them up and need a long time, probably a lifetime, to put his thoughts down on paper, that there is something in books which make its owners stay in house set on fire and be burnt with books, because people do not stay for nothing. It is the first time that the idea has come to his mind that he comes along and it is all over in a moment, in a moment when he flicks the igniter. The hero longs for putting an end to it and goes further in his resolve. 
            “Fahrenheit 451˚” is a dystopian novel, one of the greatest books in this genre, which is also presented by “Nineteen Eighty-Four” by George Orwell, “Brave New World” by Aldous Huxley and “We” by Yevgeny Zamyatin. "Fahrenheit 451̊"has won a good deal of awards for its author who is best known as fantasy, science and mystery fiction American writer. The book is considered to be one of Bradbury's best works along with The Martian Chronicle, Dandelion Wine, Farewell Summer, The Illustrated Man, Something Wicked This Way Comes. 
                 Personally, I do highly approve of this book, which is worthwhile reading, which is a real masterpiece. I find it really thought-provoking as it makes you think over the significance and value of books which make people humane, which create personalities.
             		
 		
