If tomorrow comes by Sidney Sheldon
Review by Demkina Daria
"If tomorrow comes" was written in 1985 and its genre is crime fiction. This book narrates us a story of a woman who has become the victim of New Orlean Mafia's criminal acts and who has properly conceived a plan of revenge. 
The narration is third-person, on behalf of the author. The book is set in the time of its writing, actions unfold all over the world, beginning in New Orlean.
The main character is Tracy Whitney, an ordinary woman, who had exemplary fiance, lucrative job and settled life until her mother got in the way of serious Mafia's members in New Orlean in consequence of which she died. From that moment the life of Tracy had changed cardinally. Trying to revenge for her mother she was totally defeated by the top of criminal gang ruling in New Orlean: Joe Romano, Judge Lawrence, Orsatti and Perry Pope. This crushed woman lost everything she had, even an unborn child. She was sentenced to fifteen years in jail for a crime that she didn't commit. Being in prison she vowed herself to revenge to all those people who were related to her miseries. All in all she got free ahead of time and set about the plan's realization. Tracy Whitney had destroyed all her enemies and began defeat the most authoritative and prosperous members of the Mafia plunging into adventure, making acquaintances and robbing all of them in the great amount of money. Soon she became obsessed with such criminal tricks and could not stop anymore until she had met another smart robber as she was, Jeff Stevens, and fall in love with him.
I absolutely love this book and would recommend it to everyone.  It is a real page turner that can capture everyone by its gripping thought-provoking plot and moving characters. First of all it is an educative story that shows us how not to give up even in the most difficult and leading into deadlock situations. And how important to stay calm and rational in such extreme conditions to survive. On the other side we see how dangerous to plunge into such adventures, how important to stop in time and not become obsessed with revenge. 
The main idea of the book is following: all people's evil exploits will certainly be sooner or later repaid as it happened with those, who had made money illegally, destroying the lives of innocent people.
Throughout the narration we face to great characters that strike us by their incredible dispositions.
And after reading this fascinating book I decided to read others books of Sidney Sheldon.
