The towers of the World Trade Center collapsed on September 9, 2001. Just in one day nearly 3000 people died, making thousands of other people all over the world unhappy and desperate. It's hard to imagine how many people lost members of their families, lovers or friends that day. The tragedy inspired a lot of writers and became a subject of various books. But how to write a book about such disaster and not to make it too depressing? Jonathan Safran Foer, the author of the 2005 novel "Extremely Loud & Incredibly Close", sure knows the answer. 

The story is narrated by nine-year-old Oskar Schell, whose father tragically died in the attacks on the World Trade Center. The boy tries to cope with the grief of the loss and to overcome it, constantly coming up with new ideas for impossible inventions (like a special drainage system underneath every pillow in New York to collect the tears of people who cry themselves to sleep). One of the particularly remarkable facts Oskar shares with readers reveals, in fact, exactly what he feels: "If the sun were to explode, you wouldn't even know about it for 8 minutes because that's how long it takes for light to travel to us. For eight minutes the world would still be bright and it would still feel warm." The whole story is all about these Oskar's 8 minutes with his dad which the boy tries to make last as long as possible. And apart from various ideas for devices like a kettle that sings "Yellow Submarine" when the steam comes out, he discovers another way of dealing with despair: he accidentally finds a key in his dad's wardrobe with a mysterious note "Black". Inventive and looking forward to finding new information about his father, Oskar decides to figure out what lock the key opens. He deducts that Black is a last name, so he begins visiting every single person in New York who's named Black.

The main character is exceptionally bright for his age, nevertheless he's completely believable: he's rather naive, has a lot of fears which he finds awfully hard to conquer and sometimes he's truly close to some form of emotional breakdown. Besides, when we get to know more about his family, especially his father, we understand why Oskar actually is so smart and incredibly resourceful. But that's not nearly the only outstanding character in the book, all of the others are also special, each in its own way and with its own story to share. Every character is richly-drawn and differs from the other, which is one of the things that make the story so gripping and fast-moving. Another interesting key character to mention is the boy's grandfather, who moved into the flat of Oskar's grandma after the funeral and lives there as "a rentor". Basically, Oskar doesn't even know that this man actually is his grandpa. Long ago "the rentor" lived through the bombing of Dresden, was madly in love with a woman who died along with their unborn baby in the firestorm. As a result of all this, he stopped talking and communicates mainly through notes and the words YES and NO tattooed on his palms. "The rentor" joins the search as Oskar suggests him, so the grandson and the grandfather begin to look for the lock together, but in fact one looking for his father, and the other one — for his son. 

It's amazing how Foer managed to put so many stories into one book, revealing that everyone face difficulties, everyone is somehow unhappy or at least has something to feel miserable about. The book is incredible in being simply about life itself and, actually, about all of us.

"Extremely Loud & Incredibly Close" is the second book by J. S. Foer, his first one was a 2002 novel "Everything is Illuminated", which was published when he was only 25 years old. These books have a lot in common, they both are touching and haunting, very well-written and could be easily distinguished from the books by any other author. What's more, Foer's first book is also full of incredible characters which readers are not likely to forget — for instance, a husband who collects his wife's teardrops in a thimble. In 2009 Foer also published a nonfiction book, which is called "Eating Animals" and that is on vegetarianism and the author's experience of becoming one. Both of those books are must-read ones for people who enjoyed "Extremely Loud & Incredibly Close". Apart from being witty and exciting, they are also truly thought-provoking.

"Extremely Loud & Incredibly Close" may remind of Gabriel García Márquez's magical realism, at the same time being very often compared by critics with books like J. D. Salinger's "The Catcher in the Rye". But doubtlessly, the book by J. S. Foer still stands on its own. I was totally absorbed into the book when reading it, it's a marvelous story that is possible to break your heart. At the end of the book there's a photographic flick-book, which allows readers to make a man's falling body fly up and up towards the top of a World Trade Center tower. That, I think, contents the main idea of the book: even painfully bad things can be overcome, it only takes to believe they can.

All in all, it is, undeniably, a very good read. 
