Liar’s Poker

It i s a non-fiction half-biographical novel by Michael Lewis. It tell about his life, during the work in Salomon Brothers, which was the main investment bank in 1980s. Ant the same time book focuses on the company itself and the crisis in loans and savings sector of USA economy. 

Narration goes from the first person view and starts, when Lewis graduates from University and goes to work at Wall St. as a bond trader. Most of the time, author seems, as a reliable source of information, he has no tendency to embellish reality, He has the same degree of honesty, when he shows his personal path, with a lot of uncertainties and blind moves, like major in art history, and when he lifts the veil of inner corporative culture and work as a bond salesman. 

Events of this book happens from 1984 to 1987, when “black monday” occurred, which destroyed a lot of investment banks because of huge fall of stocks prices. Most of the time we see what happens inside the bank: newcomers training process, work of salesmen, conflicts in top management, 

Basically this book reveals few fundamental conflicts of modern business. First one: fundamental knowledge vs. intuition and ability to take risk, It is maybe, the only question, which is answered by the author. Since his first steps nobody tell him, what to do. He didn’t use his knowledge and nobody did. There were no rule, as in firm, where you could be a financial analyst (helper of traders, who collected all possible information about markets) with no career growth. impossible working conditions and no weekends, or you could become a salesman with $250.000/year salary. And when you sale stocks there is the same level of uncertainty: you just can not surely predict anything. And in this case ability to cope with stress is the most important one, much more valuable, than any degree. Most of the time it is even not the question of personal traits, but luck to be at the right place at the right time.

The next one is trust vs. single-time profit and there is no answer can be given. Most of the time, work of Michael consisted of “blowing up a customer” - selling stocks, which rapidly falls in prices, That was the way, the firm made money. And they were really successful in it. This bank was not a fraudsters gang, but that was the big part of their profit. Personally Michael answered this question in favour of trust.

From other works about Wall. St. this one strikingly differs in it’s honesty. It has the same pathos, but it doesn’t change the reality, doesn’t create any idealistic worlds of market trading. I guess it is mostly because this book is not for the audience it can be thought is for. It is not a story of success with 12 advices, how to start own business or how to become rich at Forex. Those kinds of books are often published by investment banks themselves to raise profit on books at the first time and on single-time clients at the second time. Liar’s Poker doesn’t have any valuable information too. And it’s not it’s week side. That is just a property of this business: you get lucky - you find short path, you don’t  - you compete with best students in best Business Schools. No other guarantees. 

Value of this novel comes from funny and precise observations. As for example, Japanese student’s who always slept on the first rows. Firm needed Japanese students to expand it’s office in Tokyo, but locals didn’t have any passion for work in American company because of patriotic feelings. 

Another great thing - are psychological challenges which comes to those people. Their ability to read other people, to cope with emotions. It is very inspiring.

I totally recommend this book, it is a light and entertaining reading, which has a bittersweet aftertaste. 
