“Brave New World” by Aldous Huxley is one of the most recognised dystopian novels. Written in 1931 and published in 1932, it is considered to be his most famous work. The novel is set in the far future in London and describes the allegedly ideal, stable consumer society that has become feasible to create owing to technological advances.
The narration is not attached to any person hence it is quite comprehensive and objective, providing the reader with the whole view on the society, its peculiarities and the attitude of the main characters towards themselves, each other and the civilisation in general.
The story revolves around the issues of understanding happiness, virtues and vices and real values of life. The society is truly utopic since each citizen is utterly convinced that “Everybody is happy now”. Undoubtedly, it functions perfectly and thoughts about change do not occur to anybody. The civilisation is perfectly stable. But at what price?
The Utopia becomes dystopian when a rebellion appears. In other famous novels of this genre there are two sides of the conflict but, as far as “Brave New World” is considered, it is fascinating that Huxley depicts several people standing out of the crowd who, nevertheless, are different concerning values, desires and aims: at the beginning, there is Bernard Marx, who talks and behaves exceedingly oddly raising revulsion in people surrounding him. It is Bernard who seems to be an outcast but later the emergence of John, Mr. Savage from the Reservation, in that world results both in Bernanrd’s fame making him abandon his "weird" thoughts and in emphasis of distinction between John and the Civilisation, which has its evolution as the story unfolds.
The name of the novel corresponds to the John’s anticipation of encounter with the Civilisation he heard plenty of incredible stories about. In turn, the phrase he chooses - “O brave new world that has such people in it” – derives from the play “The Tempest” by Shakespeare where it is used almost in the same context: neither John in Huxley’s novel nor Miranda in Shakespeare’s play could not imagine how mistaken they were when uttering those words.
This book is often compared to George Orwell’s “1984”. “Nineteen-Eighty-Four” depicts another stable society but substantially different from one in “Brave New World”. The main point is the mechanism of stability: the totalitarian structure in Orwell’s novel is established on fear, thorough control of everybody’s lives and deprivation of joy and happiness. Moreover, it implies the suppression of all revolutionary thoughts and getting rid of suspicious people in atrocious ways. On the opposite, in the civilisation of “Brave New World” the control, surprisingly, is much more comprehensive as people’s lives are predestined since the fertilising. The state is purely totalitarian but owing to the social conditioning and other methods of supervision of physical and mental state, such as the special drug soma available to everybody, citizens are perfectly satisfied with their lives and love their servitude without any doubt. The society is established on pleasure and satisfaction.
It is worth noting that later Huxley revised the whole system and expressed the desire to change it according to his more mature worldview. It became obvious to him that the shortcoming of the book was the absence of proper choice for John since he could be accepted neither to the insane Civilisation nor to the underdeveloped and lunatic Reservation. But if the book were to be rewritten, it would obviously be another book not only without certain drawbacks but also lacking variety of advantages. Still, his further contemplations about the perspectives of modern world and its turning to one in “Brave New World” are expressed in the book “Brave New World Revisited” published in 1958. Huxley’s last novel, “Island”, develops the ideas of utopian nation and in a way complements the most famous dystopian work.
“Brave New World” was written as a warning concerning our future, the future of consumer society. I strongly recommend the book as it shows the profound comfort the humankind longs for and its other side which constitutes absence of life - genuine life with all its instability and moments of misery alternating with times of bliss, with self-improvement and contemplations about true values and the sense of existence – everything which makes it truly worthwhile. 
