Three Men In a Boat (To Say Nothing of The Dog) by Jerome K. Jerome
Review by Elizabeth Isac

Once, someone of my close relatives said, ‘good humour can cure difficult diseases’. This quotation is absolutely true about humouristic story by novelist Jerome K. Jerome, whose lambent humour have not lost its sophistication after ages since its first publication.
This stylishly and skillfully-written book is one of the first published works of Jerome K. Jerome. It has had enormous success in times of its first release, and since then it has been republishing regularly all over the world. Plus, it has got the sequel – Three Men on the Bummel (1900), where three gents travel across Germany on bicycles. This part has had success too, but it was not as loud and sparkling as this of the first book. Three Men in a Boat as a humorous adventure story is considered to be closely connected with old traditions of humorous travel writing and frequently compared with works of Mark Twain and Charles Dickenson.
With the book written in 1889, the plot of the story takes place at the same time – at the end of the 19th century, telling us about three Londoners, gentlemen and chums (and the dog, of course) – Jay (Jerome K. Jerome himself), Harris, William and Montmorency, the dog. It is curious that Jay’s friends in the book had prototypes in real life – they were friends of the writer.
These friends are actually quite an example of what gentlemen of K. Jerome’s time could be: in the setting of the plot absent-minded, lazy and with no ambitions they sit in Jay’s apartment and discuss illnesses they suffer from and ones they yet haven’t experienced, smoking cigars and complaining about how bad they feel. Nevertheless, from the first pages you can see that Jay has got a bit more responsibility than his friends, and has a tendency to reflect. Therefore the narrator ironically laughs at his own and his friends’ mistakes and weaknesses – it is important to notice that he assumes their own weaknesses, but does not deny them, as well as he does not deny that he behaves just like his friends do.
Being planned to be written as a travel report, in this story friends, after long negotiating, decide to set off for a river trip from Kingston to Oxford to relax and take off the routine strain. As it was supposed to be, they meet difficulties and become victims of simple circumstances of life – getting in the rain in a beautiful suit, or hurting a finger while hammering in a nail. The author puts it mildly with a bit of laughter that these three gentlemen, although they are old enough,  are not adapted to modern life and they often take wrong decisions – just as spoilt children. 
But even considering ridiculous and sometimes idiotic actions of this trio, I fell in love with them and did not wish to stop reading the book. Their love to life and confidence made me feel really happy while I read this story. And now, I am very enthusiastic about reading the second part of it. There is no doubt that everyone in the audience, from the youngest to the oldest, will be pleased with this story.
There is also something that irrevocably has won my feelings – the taste, with which the book is written. I have even had an after-taste on my tongue that has left from reading this text of a unique style of writing and of an absolutely stunning and charming humour that goes through every phrase with a red thread. 
One little thing, about which I may complain – sometimes funny Jay’s stories that attenuate gents’ travelling routine may seem a bit too long and detailed. It is possible that it was the idea of the author - details may be adding more ridiculousness to these stories. Nevertheless, I would say that these stories could be told in a shorter way.
The disease that this book was aimed to cure, I believe, still exists. Not because the book didn’t manage with its destination – I believe it made people think a bit and makes them do it now – but because people and times change, while the problems of the society stay. And that is what makes this book popular for so many years on since it first came out. Compiling sincere laughter and wise contemplation of human nature – these are things that make this book worth reading now and there. 


