«The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time» is a murder mystery novel by British writer Mark Haddon. This work made him famous and got him three awards: the Whitbread Award, Guardian Prize, and a Commonwealth Writers Prize.
The novel is narrated by an autistic boy, 15-year-old Christopher Boone, who is investigating  the murder of a neighbors’ dog. Actually, it is much more than just a crime story. Let's take a closer look at characters:
Christopher. Very kind and intelligent boy who doesn't understand why people lie. He describes himself as a «mathematician with some behavioural difficulties». He has a pet rat  that he loves and cares about. The only person he trusts and tells everything to is his teacher Siobhan. Christopher writes a book  where he records his experiences throughout his adventures. He wants to become an astronaut.
His divorced parents, Ed and Judy Boone. Their complicated relationship has had a huge impact on Christopher.
Siobhan, Christopher's mentor at school. She teaches him how society works and how to behave when something goes wrong.
The neighbours: Shears family, whose dog was murdered and an old lady Mrs. Alexander who is trying to help Christopher with his investigation.
The plot of the book is incredibly exciting. Christopher lives with his father who has told him that his mother died two years ago. One day he discovers the dead body of Wellington, the neighbours’ dog, speared by a garden fork.  He decides to investigate the dog's death. His father is mad at him and says to stay out of other people's business. During his investigation, Christopher meets Mrs. Alexander, who tells him that his mother had an affair with Mr. Shears and had been with him for a long time. Christopher finds a hidden pile of letters which his mother wrote to him. He can’t believe his father has lied to him. Christopher loses all trust in him and runs away.  He wants to find his mother and stay with her.
I wouldn’t call this book a detective novel because a reader finds out who is the murderer too soon. The book is not about it at all. 
Most people do not fully understand what autism is. Autistic people are often considered retarded although it is not true. The book describes the way of thinking of an autistic person. 
Christopher thinks mathematically, it seems like he follows some difficult scheme in his brain. Logic is the most important thing for him. He can’t lie because “a lie is when you say something happened which didn't happen, but there is only ever one thing which happened at a particular time and a particular place“. He doesn't understand metaphors and take them as lies. The fact that his father has lied to him shocked him so much that he managed to overcome all his fears and difficulties while interpreting the world around him.  He is an astonishingly strong person.
This book is unique. I couldn’t tear myself away from it. It is extremely well-written. The author used simple language to describe complicated things. It is evocative.  It changes reader’s perception of the world. It is really heart-warming. I couldn’t help crying at the end the story. 
I would definitely recommend the book «The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time» to everybody. It is worth reading. I believe it will impress anyone.

