
Airport by Arthur Hailey
Review by Fomina Dasha

The novel “Airport” was written by Arthur Hailey in 1968. It tells us about a city airport and people who work in it, use it and suffer from its operation. This book became a bestseller very soon after it was published and even now, after almost 50 years, Airport does not lose its popularity.
Speaking about the genres, this book is a novel-disaster, but the main accent is on people – how they behave, what feelings they have in extreme situation. Practically, it is typical for the author: heroes of all Hayley’s books find themselves in a difficult conditions.
Arthur Hailey is a British novelist known all over the world. His works have been translated in 40 languages and have sold 170 million copies. Most of the novels tell the reader about one major industry, e.g. airlines, hotels or banks, and explore the particular human conflicts that took place in that environment. It is important to understand that though the background of the conflicts is different, human’s behavior is pretty typical in many ways. So, everybody will find the reflection of him and his friends or members of the family in the personalities of the novel.
The main idea of Airport  is to show a reader just one day from the life of an airport. It is winter, snowstorm makes the operation of the airport very hard. We meet the main hero, Mel Bakersfeld, who is the airport general manager. He must come up with ideas how to remove a stuck airplane which blocked a runway, how to prevent an explosion on a board of another plane, how to catch an old woman, who on a board without a ticket and despite all these problems how to get home in time because his wife waits there for him. I could tell the plot of the novel in more details, but than I will spoil it and you will not be interested in reading this book.
	As we guess from the name of the book all actions take place in the airport, all the topic is built on it. Everyone knows that an airport is such a place where a usual day is pretty stressful, but a day when happened all those occurences, described in the novel, becomes absolutely tough. In these conditions people who work in the airport or use it are more sincere, they show their feelings and emotions easily. How I wrote before, the author wanted to focus the reader’s attention firstly on them.
	Airport has several plot lines, I can name two major ones. The first is about Mel Bakersfeld, general manager. He is smart, responsible and really devoted to his job. The problem is that this devotion tears him apart from his wife. The second line is connected with the Trans America Flight Two – preparation, flight, unexpected final and, most important, relationships between the crew during all the time.
	Airport was the first book of Arthur Hailey that I read. After finishing it I was absolutely delighted and immediately looked for other novels of this author. During all his life he wrote eleven books, most famous of them are Airport and Hotel. I read Hotel and one more book connected with airlines - Runway Zero-Eight. Hailey has his own writing style, he helps you to go deep in the structure of such global objects, understand, how they are organised and in the same time he manages to keep your attention on the relationships between people and analyse them. I tried to find other authors who write similar books but did not succeed. As for me, Authur Hailey is the best writer in this genre.
In the light of the above, I strongly recommend you to find time for reading this book. 


 
