If you are interested in how life and society will be affected after some kind of nuclear war, how people would manage to survive in harsh conditions, pressured by strict rules dictated by the new government in order to keep things under control, and if you want to participate in crazy event where’s only one winner and punishment is death, you clearly need to read “The Hunger Games” series written by American novelist Suzanne Collins.
Future. Distracted North America. Country called “Panem” which is divided in twelve districts where people  are suffering from hunger and need to work on area called “The Capitol” where all rich people enjoying life in the new world. In order to keep all 12 districts under control and avoid repetition of rebel war between districts and government, special event called “The Hunger Games” takes place every year. Each district choses 2 tributes, one girl and one boy, to participate in some kind of “free for all” match, where they need to kill each other in order to survive as long as possible. There will be only one survivor to bring the glorious victory, recognition and luxury prizes back home.
The narrator and the main character is Katniss Everdeen – sixteen-year-old girl from “District 12”. She is food provider and supporter for her family since her father died in coalmine accident. You will fall in love with her from the first page. Apart from being described as beautiful, she is the master of bow shooting as well as other survival skills, which she has improved by hunting in outskirts of “District 12” area.
The story begins to develop when annual lottery to choose new participants takes place. Prim Everdeen who is not as brave nor as mature as her sister was chosen to participate in game. Katniss, who love her twelve-year-old more than herself, immediately volunteered to participate instead of her. She and her friend Peeta Mellark, who helped her through the hard times of her family, will be representing District 12 at games. Remember, there is only one winner and that means the death of one of them.
The event itself is a pure reality show and citizens of each district need to watch the “Games” until the conclusion. As tribute you can be sponsored, and have better starting gear or dead-drops with essentials during the game, if you manage to get spotted by rich people who will recognize your abilities to survive as well as your ability to make show. It means that romantic stories, what is good what is bad conversations and hard decisions will take place. Everything goes on the table when you need to survive in harsh environmental conditions while everyone is trying to kill you.
The story is fast paced and after reading this first book of trilogy, I immediately was hyped and wanted to read the next. In my opinion, the book is much more interesting than the film, which I have managed to watch before. The book seems to me more “full” compared to the film, where is only dry and plain storytelling and action. However, in my opinion, some chapters have excessive description and you can easily get distracted form the plot.
Suzanne Collins has previous experience in writing plots for children’s television shows. Her first series “The Underland Chronicles” and especially the first book brought her popularity between 2003 and 2007. I believe, that previous TV experience and the success of her first written series brought us this incredible action-packed novel about freedom, love, survival, sacrifice and of course being yourself and trying not to match one’s expectations.
Personally, I would llike to recommend this book to people like me, who are tired of all of these boring and dry books about love without any action going and tragic fate of characters, for which I suppose to feel sad and sympathize to their despair etc. This series combines all of these aspects not in narrow way and covers them with action, so you will not be bored after couple of pages. If you feel me, it will be the perfect book for you to read as well as the completely awesome series.
