ENGLISH VOCABULARY WITH VAMPIRES
REVIEW OF “TWILIGHT” BY S.MEYER
Nowadays it is barely possible to find someone who has never heard of the Twilight Saga. Most part of the contemporary youth seems to be aware of what had happened to Bella Swan and her sweetheart vampire Edward Cullen. As “USA today” states, “With Twilight series, Stephenie Meyer bites into Rowling's records”. However, many people question the quality of the novels. Specialists in literature claim Meyer’s fiction will never be interpreted as classics, but only as an entertaining time-killer for teenage girls. 
The scene of the first novel of the saga, “Twilight”, is set in Forks, the most common small American town, which does not exist in reality. All the setting characteristics provoke readers to feel as accustomed to the described place as possible. It is used to create the contrast between casual way of life and totally different non-human extraordinary vampire conditions of living. It has the same impact on the audience as other fantasy fiction does. It takes the reader sufficiently far from everyday concerns, making them seem unimportant and not even worth bothering.
The whole story is told by the seventeen year old girl with low self-esteem which is expected from a person in adolescence. Getting irritated at most of the things happening around her, Bella instantly becomes very familiar and close to young readers.  On the other side, awareness of the Cullens’ mystery and involvement in the matters of eternity makes her look so significant and wise, that it pleases readers. As far as the vast majority of readers is formed by young girls, who suffer from the lack of self-confidence and private life, no wonder that the book is extremely popular. It fulfils them with compassion and give them hope to live their lives like Bella, who turned from the usual girl to the brave, witty and passionate vampire girlfriend. 
If we take a careful look at the plot trying to avoid narrator’s view, it turns out to be amazingly simple and predictable, though the author managed to describe these few events in 500 pages. Massive dialogues between Bella and Edward are scarcely different from each other. One remark rephrases the previous with no new information added. Indeed, why would the author bother to think of other issues to put in the discussion, if it is enough to describe how Edward gently presses his lips Bella’s neck to take reader’s breath completely? Not that it does not work with some readers, but it definitely bores the others.
No doubt some of the Saga fans find answers to many essential questions in Meyer’s books. Moreover, it is not even a challenge to do that: the author reminds us rather often that the problems she raises are vital. However, it is hard for profound readers to take those naive philosophical reflections seriously, regarding to their striking simplicity. Something in the manner of narrating makes it impossible to trust the author. For instance, Bella’s unbelievable intuition, that lets her know Edward is a vampire right away, looks like total nonsense. 
In conclusion, I would like to say that regardless of innumerous disadvantages Stepheny Meyer’s Twilight Saga is worth reading in a few cases. In particular it is appropriate for language learners eager to find new entertaining ways to learn vocabulary. Dictionary might be required while reading the first chapter but then words begin to echo each other with incredible frequency. Edward “frowns”, “groans”, “staggers” on every page. And Bella reminds that she is “reckless” about a thousand times. It might even seem that the whole product was created to make readers remember some words. In addition, if one’s mothertongue is not English, it is easier to elude irritation and awkwardness when interpreting some dumb phrases. Still, it only makes sense if the reader happens to be a girl.
