Reading novels has never been something I truly enjoyed, I just knew that books like that require much more than just understanding the plot, you have to fully dedicate yourself to analyze what author wants to say. I have done it only once and the book which made me change my mind about novels was the novel which probably everyone has heard about at least once in their life – «The catcher in rye», a controversial book written in 1957 by a controversial personality of 20th century, J.D. Salinger. 

It is most certainly not the book which you take from the shell to relax after long working day. It is the book which can leave you depressed for the rest of the day. Even though the novel was initially published for adults, reading it is surely more appropriate for the teenagers who are going through the same age period as the main character of the novel, Holden Caulfield. 

You open the book and you arrive in the New York of the middle of the 20th century. As soon as you start reading the novel you can feel the negativity it is filled with. The boy named Holden Caulfield tells you a story about how he gets expelled from his private school. Holden does not want his parents to know that so he runs away and stays in a New York City hotel. Soon he becomes aware that the world of adults is a «phony» one. Holden considers himself someone who has to protect children form that «phoniness» of the adult world and that is when he makes the decision to go west and spend the rest of his life there but his little sisters Phoebe eventually makes him stay. 

The problems which Holden confronts are quite common for someone of his age. Adolescence is one of the beautiful, yet difficult eras in one’s life. It is when people experience contradictions towards the people around them and towards society in general. These problems change the way Holden perceives the world around him, they make him alienate from society. There is a lot in Holden’s outlook on life which is still relevant to the youth nowadays, that is why the book is often read at high school all over the world.

The author of the book, J. D. Salinger will always be an author of one book. Besides his world famous novel he wrote only several short stories which were published in some magazines. In 1965 he published his final work and led a very private life till 2010, when he died at his home in New Hampshire. He chose alienation from society which makes him really similar with the main character of his novel. 

«Catcher in the rye» can be certainly called one of the books which are worth reading. It is the book which you will definitely want to read again at some point of your life. The novel made a huge impression on me, the way Holden sees the world was pretty similar to the way I saw it when I first read the book. I felt like there was someone who knew that I was going through. The simple language it is wrote with makes the novel pretty easy to read, that is probably why it took me less than two days to finish it. As I have already said reading the book is more appropriate for the people of Holden’s age, it is just easier to get his point about «phony» things in society when you’re going through the same era in your life, the era when you question everything and experience a lot of conflicts inside your psyches. 
