Daniel Keyes “The Minds of Billy Milligan”

          A couple of months ago I have read a book of Daniel Keyes “Flowers for Algernon” and I have been very interested in this author. I have found another his work that is called “The Minds of Billy Milligan” based on the real story known through the world. I enjoy stories about people with mental disorder and have read a lot of books of this genre so I   sure that I would like it. But I did not realize that this book would be so unique and exciting.
         “The Minds of Billy Milligan” is a real biography of William Stanley Milligan an only man in the world  who has had 24 different personalities in one body. The story is told by Daniel Keyes and it is obviously that not everything that is in the book is true or not all of the important things are mentioned. However, the fact that this work is approved by Billy Milligan reassure that it is a reliable source of information. 
 	 The whole story takes place in the United States of America in the end of 70-s when Billy Milligan a 23 years old man has been arrested for raping and robbery. At the first meeting with the police they discover that a man is not wholesome. Through the conversation they see how does his behavior, speech and even voice change. First the police think that he makes fun of them to avoid the punishment . But the more they watch him the more they understand that Billy needs help because he has mental disorder. At that time the disease, that is called multiple personality, has not been  studied. Doctors and public knew nothing about it, and appearance of Billy caused a huge interest. Of course, a man could not been putted in prison because he was not in his own mind. All of the actions  and сrimes were made by another people in his body and the real Billy was not awake since he had been 16 years old. Moreover he did not suspected that he was not alone in his body. Doctors were trying to help him and through this treatment they discovered horrifying details in the life of man. When Billy was a boy he was exposed to violence by his stepfather and it lasted for 10 years. At the age of 8 William was raped by him and at that moment the soul of the boy splintered in 24 pieces. He discovered how to abandon his body in this terrific situations by putting another person in his mind ahead and let him take all the pain. 
         Before this book I have read many similar works like  “One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest” by Ken Kesey  or  “Perfume: The Story of a Murderer”  by Patrick Suskind but “The Minds of Billy Milligan” has impressed me most of all. This amazing story keeps you involved all the time and you can not stop reading. Firstly, you can not believe that it is possible to have this kind of disorder , but then you begin sympathize with Billy and consider all of his personalities as real people with individual traits and nature.
I can say without a doubt that it is the most exciting and interesting story that I have ever  read and I am sure that it is worth reading. It is not only a biography, but it is a book about ups and downs, betrayal and violence. It is about a man who is totally lost and can not find his plays in the world, but otherwise he is very strong because has he managed to survive all of the circumstances he has faced in his life. After reading I had a lot of questions that have no answer and probably we will never find them because all of the official information is not available for us. Nevertheless, I am very thankful to Daniel Keyes that he managed to tell this story to the whole world
