Review
John Lyons. Homonymy and Polysemy: Lexical and Grammatical Ambiguity. In  Linguistic Semantics. Pp. 54-60.
The distinction between polysemy and homonymy is a significant issue in semantics. One of the chapters of Lyons textbook Linguistic Semantics: An Introduction is mainly devoted to this question.
Lyons claims that there are two criteria that are usually used to distinguish between homonymy and polysemy: etymological criterion (a word's historical origin) and relatedness of meaning. However, he acknowledges that there are the cases where these criteria do not establish a sharp distinction between polysemy and homonymy, as they are based on individual's language intuition.
Leaving aside the contribution that Lyons' study added to our knowledge of homonymy and polysemy, there is some criticism that can be levelled at his work. Lyons mentions only two criteria to distinguish between homonymy and polysemy and already claims that the problem of distinction between these terms is insoluble. It is essential to consider all the criteria to make this statement. Besides, such criteria as, etymology and relatedness of meaning, there are at least two criteria that are worthwhile to consider: 1) Morphological criterion 2) Synonymous relations.
1. Morphological criterion implies that polysemes and homonyms have different derivation. Thus, lexical forms, that use the same affix to form new words, are considered to be polysemes. For example, Russian nouns хлеб1 - 'cereal' and хлеб2 - ' food made of flour '- are polysemes, as they form the adjectives using the same suffix -н-: хлебные всходы и хлебный запах [1]. 
2. The various synonyms of a word provide a different kind of criterion to distinguish between pol­ysemy and homonymy. Words that have identical physical forms, but correspond to different synonyms are considered as homonyms. For example, Russian homonyms  ключ ' key' и ключ ' spring' have different  synonyms 'отмычка' and 'ручеек'[1]. On the contrary, word plain in the sense of 'easy, clear' and plain in the sense of 'undecorated' share the same synonym - simple. Therefore, plain is the polysemic word.
However, there are cases where these criteria fail to be applied. In fact, the obvious polysemic word окно 'window' in Russian can have different synonyms. Compare: разбить окно = разбить стекло, покрасить окно= покрасить раму 'break the window = break the glass' 'paint the window = paint the window frame'.
Thus, neither Lyons' criteria nor criteria that we suggested can be considered as reliable. In other words, while these criteria help to distinguish between polysemy and homonymy, they are not ultimate and sufficient by itself and can yield different results. Therefore, the distinction between polysemy and homonymy must involve several criteria.
1. Galkina-Fedoruk E.M. Modern Russian Language. Lexis. - M., 1954. - 287 p
2. 


