Due to the informational reforms in our constantly changing world, nowadays there is a tendency of magazines and newspapers becoming less popular, which I am sure is hard to deny. Not only did they lose their position on the scale of people's preferences to radio and TV, but now, with a great range and diversity of internet media sources, they are really becoming a thing of the past, step by step.
Speaking of the Internet, we should also mention that the invention of the net provided a lot of unusual ways to realise journalist's needs, whether we are talking about news or checkbook journalism. Though the news sites, official pages of radio stations and magazines are quite common, not only these obvious things serve the purposes of journalism. In the last few years it became a very popular thing  to report about the latest news and the newest trends through social networks, such as Facebook, Twitter and even Instagram. The most important and curious thing is that the reporters are often not just amateur writers, but also professional correspondents and columnists.
Usually, though, media sources use Twitter or Facebook to post only brief previews of news and other information followed by a link to an official site, where you can read the whole article, so it may be considered  just as a new way of advertising.
Anyway, in my opinion, the use of social networks can bring a lot of benefits to both writers and readers. First of all, it is important that all the information published on a Facebook page or a Twitter account goes directly to its subscribers and followers. Speaking about printed newspapers and magazines, we should remember, that there's always a possibility that a reader forgets to buy one… Also, a person just doesn't want to deal with papers in our age of technical revolution. People of this generation prefer to get their news from the most convenient sources, which, in my mind, includes practically nothing  but the Internet. There is also a tendency of simplifying everything that is possible, and that is exactly what Facebook and Twitter are for. Also, they help to post the most fresh and  interesting news in practically one minute, so readers get access to all the events in the world much faster than before. 
I guess that the speed of spreading the most recent news is what really can take journalism nowadays to a completely different level. And this is what the use of social networks provides.
