Sense and Sensibility is the story of Elinor and Marianne Dashwood, sisters who encounter many obstacles on the path to true love. In my opinion, the title of the book -“Sense and Sensibility”- is significant, as with other well-known books of Jane Austen. At my best guess, two of the heroines of the novel, the sisters Elinor and Marianne, or rather their personalities are reflected in the title of the novel. Obviously, the title should have their names in it, but the author rather decided to put in the title the traits that are embodied in each of the heroines.  The difference in the characters of the two girls reveals the difference between the notions sense and sensibility. Elinor, the older of the sisters, is ruled by sense. Therefore, she is not given to great shows of emotion or passion, whereas Marianne, who is only about 17 during the time the story takes place, thrives on drama and expressions of emotion, she dislikes and distrusts anyone who does not wear his heart on his sleeve. The author especially emphasizes the fact that her emotions affect her appearance, to an extent where those around her can’t help noticing it. For me, Elinor (actually, Elinor and Marianne have also a younger sister, Margaret) is by far the more sympathetic of the sisters Dashwood, though some people may, I suppose, find her equanimity and perfection a little off-putting. I found her very sympathetic, since as the reader we’re privy to her inner thoughts and realize how hard it is for her to maintain her calm. 
The story opens with the death of Mr. Henry Dashwood, Elinor, Marianne and Margaret’s father. Soon, their half-brother and his rapacious wife descend on Norland Park, the family’s estate, and take over the place. Mr. Dashwood had hoped to provide well for his second wife and their three daughters. Unfortunately the estate had been passed down to Mr. Dashwood in such a way that he was unable to leave it to anyone but his son John, who was already wealthy from an inheritance from his late mother, as well as from a good marriage. So, as an alternative Mr. Dashwood asked John on his deathbed to look after the interests of his stepmother and sisters. However, John and his wife have soon decided that this “generous spirit” only requires them to help the ladies find a suitable place to move to, and nothing more. Moreover, Mrs. John Dashwood’s is concerned about the connection forming between Elinor and her brother, Edward Ferrars, who is a frequent visitor at Norland. Mr. Ferrars is the eldest son of a wealthy family and his sister and mother have big plans for him that don’t include a quiet, modest “nobody” such as Elinor. Shortly the widow Dashwood and her daughters receive an offer from a distant relative to move to Devonshire, to a comfortable and affordable cottage near the relative’s estate. They leave Norland with some regret and begin their new life. Afterwards, settled in Devonshire, the Dashwood sisters meet a veritable host of new people. Sir John Middleton, their jolly but rather silly benefactor, his wife, who thinks of nothing but her children, and Mrs. Jennings, the wife’s mother, vulgar and gossipy but with an unexpected heart of gold. They also meet several eligible gentlemen, for instance, Colonel Brandon, a friend of Middleton’s, who takes an interest in Marianne, but an interest not returned, because she finds him to be too boring and passionless. Another one is John Willoughby, a dashing young man who does attract Marianne’s notice. On the whole, there’s a lot going on in the plot of Sense and Sensibility and there are several major and minor characters that I haven’t mentioned, needless to say that I haven’t truly managed to dig very deeply into the narrative. However, I am convinced that the most exciting part of this novel is a number of twists and turns to Elinor’s and Marianne’s romances and both sisters suffering a fair amount of heartache before each finds her beloved.
I liked pretty much everything about Sense and Sensibility. The plot, which is intricate without being too convoluted, the characters, several of whom have unexpected depth, and even some of the villains, who are not entirely without nuance. Also one of the pleasures of the book for me is that I didn’t know who would end up with who. Elinor and Marianne approach romance so differently, so it's interesting to watch how each of their stories unfold. Apart from this, while reading this book, I encountered difficulties with the old-fashioned writing, which features long, indirect sentences that I tended to get lost in and have to reread in order to understand. Sense and Sensibility made me think a lot about why people do the things they do. It helped me to think about people wholly, taking into consideration their backgrounds and experiences and not only the immediate situation they happen to find themselves in. It taught me that most of the time, there is a whole iceberg behind the way a person acts toward you.  How different life experiences change people, and how, ultimately, you have to do what is going to make you happy in life. Moreover, I learned that you can’t stop people from doing what is going to make them happy, even if it is the wrong decision in the long term.  After reading this book, my entire outlook on relationships was changed.
In addition to this, I would like to say that the novel can be called a ladies’ one, on the ground that it has some of its characteristics. First, the main characters are women, they fall in love and want to marry to find real happiness. Secondly, in the end everything works out the best way – a typical ending for pieces of this genre. As a conclusion I am inclined to believe that reading this novel, which describes the elegance of manners, spiritual development, high education, high moral heroes, elevates the reader and opens new horizons of self-education. And it's a book you can read over and over again and never get tired of. The characters are real and, like any true Austen novel, have to go through many trials before they find their true love.
