Steven Fry's discussion of whether men and women speak different languages involves many issues. Each of them is interesting to think over, that's why we'll do it after Steven Fry to make up our own conclusion.
The first question the author touches is the one of men and women general equality. Since the rise of feminism in the 1960-s women have been trying to equalize their rights with men's ones and it also seemed important for them to reflect it in language. So they succeeded in it. But as for me, this was not the point worth having been fought for. Whether it is said "he or she" or just "he" doesn't influence the way things in real life are. I understand if the woman is happy when she's accepted for some job which have previously been available only for men, but I can hardly imagine a woman whose life became better when she started to hear "chairperson" instead of "chairman". However, that's how it is nowadays.
Still there is a phenomenon which can't be ruled by national politics of the countries, and these are the differences in men's and women use of language. I think their existence shouldn't be denied, but there are fewer of them than it is claimed, for example, by Dr. John Gray, the author of the book "Men are from Mars…". Turning to the concrete examples, the "implicative" language which consists of the phrases meaning something different from what is actually said is considered by me as intersexual. Men and women just apply it to their own life situations which tend to be common for one certain gender than for both of them, but it doesn't mean that I can't say "It will take too long to explain" implying "I have no idea how it works" because of being a woman and not a man.
However, I don't think investigating the differences in men's and women's discourse to be a stupid thing, because what Professor Jennifer Coats was talking about is obviously true. The way women talk to each other differ from how men do it undoubtedly. But there is a slightly different situation with domination in conversations between two genders. I support the point of view that men often dominate women because of the power they hold rather than because of their gender. Previously women's role in life itself could not be dominating, and the way they used to speak reflected it. However, women nowadays are often self-relying, active and powerful enough not to be dominated by men. To sum up, I'd connect the issue of domination in conversation with person's social position rather than with his or her gender.
There exists another interesting aspect which I think is really connected to the gender, and it is men's and women's abilities to move along the imaginary range of their masculinity or feminity. It's quite easy for women to speak more and less feminine depending on the situation they are in. Nowadays women whose purposes are to make a good career are motivated to become more masculine and therefore become successful sooner and easier. Such women are even respected. However, things are different for men. It is harder for them to lower their masculinity, though in some cases it is necessary to be not only "cool" and tough, but, for example, to study diligently and not just to fool around. Though it seems absurd to me to think of hard-working boys as of some kind of gays, I cannot deny the existence of such opinion among them. So I think men to be less lucky in this case, because some life situations really require changing the level of masculinity or feminity.
The most interesting and convincing issue comes by the end of the discussion and illuminates the case of transsexuality. The practice of sex-change operations and special speech therapy given after them proves the "myth" that men and women speak differently. If they didn't, former men wouldn't have to rework their speech professionally to look like women. So it's not enough to change the quality of their voice; specialists agree that it's also necessary to rework the tone of conversation, the words used throughout it and some additional things, such as encouraging the others to feed back. The differences in men's and women's speech are therefore accepted scientifically.
To conclude, I think it's extremely important and right to make a distinction between sex and gender. Only the way we identify ourselves in the society influences the way we speak, not our biological characteristics. If the members of a same-sex couple can't understand each other well, it may happen because of them not being of the same social gender in their minds. Though the argument of Steven Fry and Deborah Cameron is indisputable when they claim language not to be telepathy and therefore any two persons would never understand each other fully, in my opinion, the existence of differences in speech which are connected to gender is also undoubted.
