The research of cultural development of different people living in Australia was held not long ago. Sociologists found out how many Australian in origin, new migrants born in English-speaking countries and new migrants born in other countries visit several cultural public places: a zoo, a library, a theatre and a cinema. Speaking about theatre, I can say that this place is the most unattended. Only 20%, 25% and 10% of people born in Australia, new migrants from English-speaking countries and migrants from other parts of the world respectively do visit a theatre. Zoo is a more likable place; slightly more than 40% of Australians by birth, exactly the half of migrants from countries where English is one of the speaking languages and 35% of people from other countries like to be in a zoo. Library is the most attended place among migrants from nonspeaking English countries - 55% visitors; 40% migrants from countries with English as one of the official languages and eventually less than 40% of born in Australia people like to peacefully read in a library. It turns out that a cinema is the most popular place to visit. 70% Australians by birth visit cinema, 65% of migrants from English-speaking countries and 50% of new migrants from other countries do the same.
This data shows that theatre is the most unpopular place among all three categories of Australian inhabitants, may be because of the expensiveness. While cinema attracts people much more: 70% of Australians by birth and 65% of new migrants born in English-speaking countries; these figures were at the high in this particular research. It seems to me that people from nonspeaking English countries are not tended to visit cinemas just of their inability to understand the language because all movies are in English. It is remarkable that most of this category of Australian population like to visit libraries, perhaps they want somehow improve their English skills. 
According to these diagrams I can assume that cinema as the mixture of accessibility and changeable entertaining programme is the most popular mean of amusement. Library, zoo and certainly theatre could attract more visitors but they do not cope with it on their own so the government should help and spend more time and money for the development of cultural aspect of the country and especially every city individually.
