Some people think that nowadays we rely on technology so much that we learn worse and lose basic skills. 

I totally agree with this idea, because I know a lot of people who have modern gadgets and use them for as many things as the devices provide. This reliance is very addictive: once someone started to substitute his or her brain with the machine, it is hard to stop. Psychologists and physiologists advise to train one's brain solving mathematical and logical tasks and puzzles. Training memory and attention is also very important for keeping the brain fit - both literally and methaphorically. The training is essential, because it helps to create and to strengthen neuron connections, which get destroyed, unless we use them regularly. The ability to build these connections is importat when a person learns, because the more connections there are, the easier it is to build new ones. That's why using the technology instead of the brain for such easy operations as calculating or spell-checking, for example, can affect learning ability. What's more, people get used to not doing some things so much that they can forget how to do them at all. If one day all the devices stop working, those addictive people will not be capable of processing simple mental operations or to memorise a bit of information.

On the other hand, modern technology saves a lot of time. I am sure that when someone's success depends on the speed of doing tasks, the help of technology is beneficial. There are some things that are almost impossible to be done manually, so, in this case, it's hard to avoid the substitution of the brain activity with the technological processing.

On the whole, I believe that people today rely on technology too much, which leads to forgetting some basic skills. In my opinion, everyone should rely more on his or her brain and train it. However, it is really impressive how smart the modern devices are and to what extend their abilities go. But we must remember that all the technology was created by men.
