1. He said that it was important for racing integrity that all participants were on a level playing field. 
They were both on a level playing field when they got married.
2. One of the keys to success in business is never to take your eye off the ball.
3. I guess, we shouldn't just sit and wait. Let's start the ball rolling.
4. He tried to outbid them, but only scored an own goal.
The bank scored an own goal by introducing unpopular charges, so they lost a lot of customers.
5. Making the first film was a whole new ball game for her.
I knew the situation would become a whole new ball game when the owner of the small shop had decided to sell it.
6. I really have to stay on the ball to handle all of my tasks.
7. We'd almost signed the contract when the other guys moved the goalposts and said they wanted more money.
8.Fourteen out of the fifteennations have agreed to the new restrictions but one country still refuses to play ball.
9. Max won't play ball with the gang anymore. It is illegal.
10. You can't trust John to do the job right. He's always dropping the ball.
11. I plan to have a ball while I'm on vacation.
The party last night was wonderful, we had a ball!
12.We need someone who knows how to get the job done John can't carry the ball. He isn't organized enough.
13. Now that the seniors have graduated, you are next in line. The ball is now in your court.
14. Tom wanted to quit his job. He said he was tired ofthat old ball and chain. An old male joke refers to the wife as the ball and chain.
15. To go for-to try to get something that you have to compete for.
There were 200 people going for just three jobs.
16. England had been knocked out of the World Cup by West Germany.
17. He works out at the local gym every day. She generally works off her anger by going for a run.
18. Stretching exercises to warm up your calf muscles.  To cool down- to become, or to cause someone to become, less angry orexcited. Just try to cool down and think rationally.
19. So how exactly can you pull ahead and make the real profits when everyone else is fighting to do the same? During our trip we lag behind India, Poland and Brazil. Australia's public companies continue to lag behind peers in Europe and North America when it comes to disclosing greenhouse gas emissions.
20. The top three teams go forward to the next round.
21. Our deepest sympathies go out to her husband and children. City went out to European champions Rome. Argentina lost 2–1 to Germany. 
