Nowadays immigration is a very widespread event all over the world. Almost in every country we can meet this kind of movement. There are a lot of opinions about immigration. Some people think that it is good for economic development of a country; other people discuss the problems connected with immigration's influence  on  culture and uniqueness of countries' peculiarity. But what are the reasons for people to move to another country, to live almost everything and start a "new" life? 
In my opinion there are a lot of different reasons for people for making a decision about immigrating. First of all, the wage appears to be the main reason for people to change their life.A man would like to find a workplace where he or she will be given appropriate working conditions, salaries which could be comparable with the quality and amount of  job. So it is the economic migration factor. Economic reasons are rooted in the different economic levels of development of certain countries.Labor force moves from countries with low standards of living in countries with a higher level. For example, Average hourly earning in Europe of industrial workers in German is about 30 dollars which is in comparison with Russian figure (which is about 1,3 ), looks very impressive and tempting. Looking at these indexes of earnings it is becoming evident why people make  decisive, risky step to move to another country. Secondly, the cause can be connected with a family.  People wanting agood future for their children try to find a place where it could be possible.  The main reasons for them could be such things like a better education, a better medical care, the possibility of getting a place in  kindergarten and even it might be connected with a  health of a child. For example,  it was founded out that a child  has a disease, for instanceconnected with lungs. The doctor recommended parents to change the climate if they would like to stamp out the disease.  Undoubtedly, most parents  are for the benefit of their child that is why they  decide to move to another place. I belief that there are a lot of stories of immigration like was described above. In addition, the previous cause may be connected with a  religionmatters of immigration. Religion also plays a very big role in the movements of people. As a rule, the religious minority leaves its living environment pressed by the religious majority. Moreover, it can be connected with, for example, oppression of children at school, problems with finding a job because of some religious prejudice.
However, some people claim that only not so clever and poor people yield to  migration process. They consider that they run away from their own problems to another country or what is worse, they sometimes live their country when it undergoes changes or needs the help of its citizens. But I totally disagree with this statement. There is a kind of immigration which is called brain drain. This notion means departure of scientists from the territory of a  country. Thus, in particular, in the last decade about ten thousands of scientists have moved from Russia: mathematicians, computer scientists, physicists, biologists, mainly to Western Europe, the U.S. and Canada. But, in my opinion, it does not mean that they do not want to develop the native country with their clever and innovative ideas. It signifies that they do not have the opportunities and possibilities for the elaboration. They have to go to another country where significant investment in their projects can be done and where their ideas are valued and highly paid . So they just like  make their dreams and thoughts come true but do not run away from a  country.
To conclude, I would like to say that there are many different types of immigration and it  influences the way of  countries' life somehow.  But every person who decides to move has their own reasons for making this risky step. 

