There are different types of book reviews. It depends on the book, which is being described – on its genre, plot, size, author 

and many other things. It also depends on the goal of the review author – if he wants to criticize it, there will be a specific 

style of writing, if he wants to recommend it – there will be other, if he wants just to discuss something about it – the third 

one. The audience can also have an influence on the type of review.

For example, the review on “Three Men in a Boat (to say nothing of the dog)” is, in my opinion, written for people who have 

not already read the original. It tells us shortly the plot and recommends to read “Three Men in a Boat”. It does not contain 

any discussion, any difficult ideas about hidden meaning etc. May be, the simple structure of the review can be explained by 

the same simplicity of the book. The plot is very simple — three men and one dog are tripping by boat on Thames. But the 

plot is not the most important thing in the book — funny short stories, describing the trip, philosophical thoughts, which 

does not really refer to the subject of "Three men" and, of course, impressive landscapes, described by Jerome K. Jerome 

are much more breathtaking. My opinion is that's why the short description of the plot in the review can't really spoil us the 

reading of this novel. But in fact, the review doesn't tell us something excepting this — so, it can't be very interesting for you 

if you already know the plot. At the same time, the review can easily attract the attention of those who have not read the 

"Three men in a Boat" and make them read it.

The review on "To Kill a Mockingbird" refers, I think, to the other type. Rodman Philbrick, the author of the review, doesn't 

tell us the plot, except the general subjects. May be this fact is related with the plot of this novel, which is much more 

complicated than the plot of "Three Man in a Boat". But this review also narrates us about questions raised in the novel, 

about hidden ideas expressed by author about discussed social problems. A review of this type can not only attract new 

readers, but also interest those, who have already read "To Kill a Mockingbird". The review expresses an opinion not only 

about the subject itself, but also about themes, which are posed as questions and an answer is not given. Thus, a review 

reader can compare its author's opinion with his own thoughts. May be the experienced audience is also the reason for not 

describing the whole plot cause readers already know it.

Steven Pinker's article "The sense of style" is presented by three reviews of a completely different type. The reason is, I 

think, the genre of the article — it is kind of manual or scientific article, while two previous novels are fictional books. These 

reviews don't describe their subject as something undoubtedly great — they are criticizing the article, or at least discussing 

its disadvantages. All the three reviews are addressed at the experienced reader, who has read Pinker's article or who is a 

professional linguist, philologist, or writer.

To make a conclusion, I would like to underline the variety of book reviews at all and the difference between the given ones 

in particular.
