Critique  on  a chapter "Componential Analysis" from "Linguistic Semantics: An Introduction" by John Lyons

Componential analysis is a theory in semantics. It was covered by John Lyons in the chapter "Componential Analysis" from the textbook "Linguistic Semantics: An Introduction". It proposes decomposing meanings into several simplier ones, which are connected with common logical operations (combining or negating). 
It's strong side appeared to be the possibility of description of meanings through opposition. For example, "man" and "boy" can be opposed by a simplier component "adult", since in "boy" it would be negated, but both would share the component "male". On the other hand, "man" and "woman" would both have "adult", but "woman" would have "female", thus becoming opposed. Although these descriptions look technicaly usable, the theory was abandoned. It was functioning only where there was a possibility to oppose meanings, while in other cases it was inapplicable. Recently it arose a wave of interest again, since computer linguists were seeking a way to make computer technology understand meaning of words.
There is a way to use the theory in computer linguistics, using the strong side of it that was noted above. However, additional work needs to be done for the possibilities to be exploited to their full extent. With the technology nowadays, there are means of creating a virtual world. It can have a broad range of different aspects - precise physics, regulative values and many other. There is a possibility to create any object needed. Through opposition, it is possible to make the potential AI (Artificial Intelligence) analyse the objects.
A simple physical description would make the purpose of such an approach clear. Let the example be "jeep" and "tank". Both would have "transport". "Jeep", however, would be opposed to "tank" with the component "fast", since "tank" would have "slow". On the other hand, "tank" would have "armored" opposed to "jeep"'s "light". So, when modelling a situation, two objects will computer have in in - one called "tank" and the other called "jeep". In a simple movement situation, "tank" would not go faster than "jeep, but in a model of a crash "tank" would sustain greater damage that "jeep". Opposed, when computer analyses a slow, but robust respective to all other object, it would call it a "tank". Of course, there is a considerable amount of problems and rising questions about this way of applying the theory, but it should all be solved on practice, while the overall idea is understandable.
These simplier meanings may even lead to possible solutions of a variety of goals. Take 



