My first Salinger’s book was «The Catcher in the Rye». Honestly speaking, I didn’t like this book at all: Holden Caulfield’s experiences were obscure and uninteresting for me. That’s why I hadn’t read Salinger to my eleventh grade. But one day we were reading “A Perfect Day for Bananafish” in English literature class, and at that moment I understood that I needed to read the whole book. I fell in love with Seymour Glass, with his weirdness, his riddle-talking and his own riddle. But most of all I was charmed by his advice to just learn German to read the book of the German poet. At that time I was giving incompatibility of literary translation a lot of thought and those words appealed to me and really inspired me. In corroboration to the idea of translation’s deficiency, when I tried reading “A Perfect Day for Bananafish” in Rita Rait-Kovaleva’s translation, I didn’t find there what I liked in Salinger. Her style is perfect, but I think, she immensely simplified the text, got rid of all its absurdity. It is quite a good book, but on my opinion it is not Salinger’s “Nine Stories”.
So “Nine Stories” is a collection of nine short stories. The epigraph for the collection is, “We know the sound of two hands clapping. But what is the sound of one hand clapping?” It is a kōan, a short riddle of sorts that Zen masters give to Zen students. The point is to meditate on the riddle and come up with a sort of answer. And all the stories in the collection are similar to kōans. All of them are riddles. Every story leaves a feeling of a reticence, of perplexity. A reader has to meditate to understand why Seemore Glass commits a suicide, what Eloise really feels for her daughter, what happens to Ginnie in Selena’s apartment etc. One needs to muse on it to find an answer, and, as I understood googling about this book, everybody founds his own one. 

In the spotlight of every story is an image of a queer fellow of fine fiber and, in a certain sense, every story is a sketch about the way such people communicate with the rest of the world. Salinger masterly creates this characters; they could be mad (Saymour Glass), even disgusting (Franklin Graff), but at the same time they are always incredibly charming.
There are two ways to read “Nine stories”: you can just enjoy it as a great book, but also you can interpret it from a standpoint of Zen Buddhism philosophy or even as a book written in the traditions of the dhvani theory.
The second way is supported by the epigraph and the last story in the collection, which together form a frame construction. This frame positioning also refers to the importance of this motive. And the ninth story”Teddy” could furnish the clue to the puzzle of the first one; the Teddy’s tale about his last incarnation resembles Seymour Glass’s story and in some way explains his choice. Teddy tells that he met the woman in his previous life, stopped the meditation and had to change the body to continue on his way to Brahma. Maybe, Seymour looking for this way too, and that’s why the suicide is the only thing to do for him.
In that way the Salinger’s book exists on the two levels at the same time. This fact urges readers to reread the whole book from the point of view of the last story, but they can just meditate on the every story as on a kōan, and the book will still great.
