The review of the Great Gatsby
The Great Gatsby is a novel madeby an American writer Francis Scott Fitzgerald. It was published in 1925, but itits consideration to be a masterpiece of 20th century was only after theFitzgerald's death. 
The story takes place in the period after the First World War (in 1922) in America. The major character is Nick Carraway, who is also presented as a narrator. Nick rents a house on Long Island, which is next door to the mansion of Jay Gatsby. Gatsby is famous for his wealth and revelries full of luxury. The plot has a deal with the close connections withthe certain group of characters, in which Nick seems not to be  a leading one but the participant . He only sees and reports us what is happening there.
This novel shows us the story of a man wallowed in the destiny of beingrich and famous. But the  main point is to show us not that it really is , but the specificallyhow fortune and love develop Jay Gatsby, what he can do in order to stay with both of these things. 
Francis Scott Fitzgerald was an outstanding American novelist and short story writer. In his works he attempted to describe convincingly the tragedy of a man in a capitalist society. The lust for money, inherent in the so-called American way of life,  proved the curse to many of his characters and sometimes they become victims ofthemselves . He uses this strategy almost in all his stories. It could be found in This Side of Paradise, Tender is the Night, and others. 
Nevertheless, the Great Gatsby received mostly positive reviews when it was first published, and many of Fitzgerald's literary friends (such as Ernest Hemingway) wrote him letters praising the novel. However, Gatsby was  leses popular than This Side of Paradise and The Beautiful and Damned. Thus, the commercial success went only years later.
When Fitzgerald died in 1940, he had been largely forgotten. His obituary in The New York Times mentioned Gatsby as evidence of great potential that was never reached. Gatsby gained readers when the Armed Services Editions gave about 150 000 copies of the novel to the American military in the Second World War. Thus, by the 1960s Gatsby's reputation was  established. 
The Great Gatsby has been adapted  numerous times,  in various media. The story of Gatsby has been filmed five times and is   being filmed for the sixth time. It also has been adopted in the theatre and even in the opera. 

