The spirit of sporting competition has been destroyed by the amount of money now associated with most sports.      Nowadays due to investigations and advertising the interest to in the sport has grown a lot. People from all over the world have started tobe fond of sports and even go in for sports. However, there is an opinion that sport has become corrupted and has lost its value and the mainaim of competing.      From my point of view, sport has remained retained its goals on an honest basis. First of all, the spirit of sporting competition can beproved by the Olympic gamesGames. It is a great event when sportsmen and women from all over the world gather together to show theirachievements and to take part in fair competitions. Such tests like as compulsory drug testing are not bribable, that which excludes any way ofcheating. In addition, there are some kinds of sports that can be named "unique": they have no referee. Frisbee ultimate is a good example. Evenat major championships participants themselves admit doing wrongdoing. None of the athletes do not even thinks to of usinge bluff and dirtymethods of play, because this game is based on honesty.  So it could be said that no money but self-respect and respect for your adversaryrivals play a very big role in sport.      Nevertheless, some people claim that a big amount of money are is spent not only by the government but also by different sponsors,sometimes even disproportionally. In my opinion, nowadays sport cannot exist without investment. Sportsmen need new equipment, places fortraining, plane or train tickets to the plane or to train to get to competitions.  Of course, some teams are luckier than others and get moremoney, but I suppose that it is a part of a real emulationcompetitiveness: if you prove yourself to be good, your skills that are better thanothers you win and you are noticed, if not- you lose.      To sum up, in spite of the discussion whether the sport is corrupted or not, it still attracts people by the purpose of being giving them achance to become better and to achieveing new aims.      Lena, the highlighted areas are not clear - either explain, or paraphrase, or give examples.