The charts give information about the changes in wildlife in a particular area from 2000 to present. The first chart illustrate the main reasons for population changes in this area and the second one shows the affected species and percentage change in their population. 
According to a long-term survey carried out by an environmental group, the main two reasons for wildlife population changes are habitat destruction (43 percent) and pollution (21 percent).Surprisingly, overexploitation of local wildlife and random factors, such as accidents, almost equally affect population of local species (15 and 12 percent, respectively). The next cause is disease, which makes only 6 percent of all the factors that influence wildlife in the studied area, and the least important factor of all is the introduction of exotic species (only 3 percent). 
The second chart observes the population changes in 6 types of local animals, such as freshwater fish, birds, reptiles, insects, mammals and aquatic mammals. Some of them have decreased since 2000, while the population of other species have only grown, and the correlation between percentages in both charts seems evident. Firstly, the only three species increased in population are mammals: bats (23 percent), foxes (9 percent) and otters (9 percent) – animals proved to be more adaptable to the habitat changes than other presented groups. Hedgehogs and water voles are smaller than foxes and otters and less adaptable than bats – thus, their population has been decreased affected, supposedly, by pollution, accidents and disease. Habitat destruction, probably, has influenced insects and reptiles the most: there are only half of butterflies and bees left in this area and the population of grass snakes and sand lizards has decreased by 8 and 6 percent, respectively. Overexploitation and water pollution have led to the fact that the number of freshwater fish in the area has been reduced by almost 30%. While the population of birds on the average has decreased less, – only by 6% - the main reason for this change is the same: overexploitation, hunting. 
To draw a conclusion, it is important to state that the presented charts show that mammals, of all the local animals, evidently are less influenced by any significant factor studied in the survey. More attention should be drawn to protection of fish and insects, as they are seriously endangered by their habitat changes, which could definitely be controlled by local government and people. 
