Lyons, J. (1995). Componential analysis. In: Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction, 107-114.
In the chapter Componential analysis John Lyons presents a theory of semantic description that was quite popular in the middle of the 20th century. However, by the end of the century it had been almost forgotten. In this critique the several advantages and disadvantages of the componential analysis theory will be discussed.
Componential analysis (CA) is a method of semantic description by decomposing the notion into more primitive elements, which are called semantic features. The sets of semantic features are based on binary system that means they are organized by opposition. One of the most illustrative examples is the description of kinship system by use of CA. The notion "father" can be decomposed into simpler terms: "human" + "parent" + "male"; "mother" = "human" + "parent" + "female". Therefore, the set of semantic features of the notion "mother" will be [+HUMAN, +PARENT, -MALE].
On the one hand, the CA theory appears to be rather appropriate in several linguistic areas. For example, words that have oppositions are easily described in binary system. Thus, for adjectives (tall - short), some abstract nouns (courage - cowardice), emotions (joy - sadness) componential analysis seems to be quite suitable. Furthermore, this binary principle could be useful in resolving formal problems (for example, semantic tagging). Moreover, componential analysis, probably, could be useful in approaching to unknown languages. For instance, through this method of description it may be noticed is there a feature of, for example, animacy in the language and how it is conveyed. However, there are certain crucial points that are missing.
On the other hand, though for description of some classes of words CA is rather suitable, it may be difficult to define objects. They do not have opposites and, what is more important, they have functions that are more appropriate to describe by use of verbs. For example, if we try to define the notion "plate" by use of semantic features, we would say "circle", "ceramic". However, without noticing functions of the object we cannot understand what and for what it is. Further on, language is a complex thing, and there are some phenomena that cannot be conveyed through CA. Interaction between words in the sentence, internal syntax, figurative sense - all these language phenomena could not be explained through the set of semantic features. 
Leaving aside the above criticism, it should be mentioned that the theory of CA gave a powerful incentive to the development of semantic description and some later theories have derived from it. Nowadays it, probably, could be revised with respect to the fields of linguistics.

