Glossematics
Glossematics was formed in Denmark at the beginning of 1930s and was developing as a branch of structuralism. This course was proposed by a Danish researcher Louis Hjelmslev. In 1935 Hjelmslev presented his work Prolegomena to a Theory of Language  in which he gave a conception basis of glossematics. He was unsatisfied with contemporary linguistic science  because it was a blend of history, sociology, philosophy and other sciences. From his point of view, the science can be independent only when it is self-limited. By that he meant an elaboration of theoretical and practical basis without any references to other scientific fields. So, he tried to show the autonomy of linguistics with an exception made only for mathematics and semiotics. Louis Hjelmslev called this particular linguistics  a special term glossematics in order not to confuse it with linguistics in its general way. Thus, he defined glossematics as a linguistic area which considers the language by means of mathematical and logical aspects without researching the substance and real sound.
Basically, this book contains the main aspects of a language examination with the use of the glossematics methods.  Formally,  researcher offered some principles on which the theory was made upon. They are the following:
1) Empirical principle;
2) Principle of simplicity;
3) Principle of reducibility;
4) Principle of economy;
5) Generalization principle.
Nevertheless, not only Hjelmslev's contribution to the theory was sufficient. Hans Jorgen Uldall and Knud Togebu have also made valuable researches. As they both were the Hjelmslev's pupils, the above-mentioned principles were configured in a really effective way. Uldall tried to assure orderliness into a theoretical component of glossematics and in 1957 he has published a sort of a manual for this course which was named Outline of Glossematics. This book seems to be a complicated mathematics-based version of the language essence. For instance, he insists on strict division of the sentence. To his mind, the whole analysis is based on the deductive approach. So, the classification of the elements of the text goes straight forward from the biggest part to indivisible, from text to minimal segment. 
Moreover, Knud Togebu also reflected this aspect in his works. The most important of them is Structure immanente de la langue francaise published in 1951. This work contains the description of the grammar system of French, and, of course, it is rested upon the theory and notions of glossematics. The main point is that Togebu has made empirical evidence that it is possible to describe the enormously big and complex system of natural language using the mathematical and logic rules. 
But that was not as clear as they all thought. Some uncertainty was permeated in the works of glossematicans.
Many linguists mentioned practical uselessness of glossematics, because within the scope of this stream the language is perceived as a complicated mathematical system in which only synchronous data are elaborated. Thus, there is no opportunity to describe the language in diachrony. This point was discussed in details in the essay of V.A. Zvegintsev. This essay was included in a special edition of  New in Foreign Linguistics (vol.I). Actually, a major part of that collected works was dedicated to the concept of glossematics, so, Zvegintsev's comment seems very substantial.
Besides, from the beginning of formulating their theory, gloccematicans maintained that linguistics have to function without any connection with other kinds of science. It was one of the main theses in the Hjelmslev's book Prolegomena to a Theory of Language.  But Andree Martinet noted in his book Economie des changements phoneetiques that it's impossible to ignore the human factor which is studied by psychology,  physiology, for instance. Martinet suggested that according to glossematic principles, the researcher should consider language not as a system of interrelations of language elements but as a structure of these interrelations. Therefore, the description of the language comes to the analyses of interrelations between functions, but not to the analyses of real content (sound and substance). 
Nowadays the glossematics is realized as an outdated approach and, in this case current researches are not devoted to the question of  comparison between a natural language system and a mathematical system.


