Spasibo Eugeny
Essay
'Popular fiction is not literature'
It's really hard to what can be called popular fiction and what cannot. To pursue the term, I think we should compare books with some other sphere of mass media. For example, with movies - there are popular movies, which were made in order to get big sales and which are broadly advertised, and arthouse movies, the main idea of which is to some sort of art sense to the audience. I think we should try and apply such way of describing things to books.
Let's pick some fiction that can undopubtedly be popular. Like twilight "saga"'. It's as advertised as Chupa-Chups all around the globe. The word 'saga' was entered into the title to attract teenagers, since such things as Star Wars were called 'saga'. But while Star Wars somehow really manages to keep up to the word, bringing us a story of generations of Jedi, of how their art was brought through from Qui-Gonn to Obi-Wan, from him to Anakin Skywalker and then to his son, Luke Skywalker, Twilight actually does none of that. If we sum it up with the fact that the narrative is terrible, the plot has no point at all and is full of liches, we can firmly state that Twilight is no literature at all.
But there's more to it.??? There's actually the Song of Ice and Fire by George Martin. The thing is - it's popular. It's broadly advertised, it has a TV show based on it, there' a lot of merchendise being sold. But it's undoubtedly literature. The story with it's twists, deep and up to date problems, the narrative with incredible wordplay and use of the most sophisticated and forgotten words of English language and the characters - everything was crafted with such love, diligenc and desire to bring some beauty into this world, that there is no point argueing about it's value.
So one can't actually say that popular fiction isn't literature - it depends on which exactly title do you mean. Some can DO WHAT?. Some cannot DO WHAT?.. The popularity, the audience do actually matter IN WHAT WAY?, but not much as one may think.



