
   No one can deny that novels written by F. Scott Fitzgerald have become extremely popular in our days, especially, “The Great Gatsby”.
F. Scott Fitzgerald became the idol of American youth in 1920s. This reputation has stayed with him forever, and even today the American critic continues to call him the singer of "jazz century". In the novel "The Great Gatsby" Fitzgerald explores the phenomenon of the "American dream”. Plot of this novel shows us the great example of sociological conception by Georg Simmel, which he describes in his article “The Gold Coast and the Slums”. 
   The novel takes place near New York. F. Scott Fitzgerald describes the fictional town of the West Egg on prosperous Long Island in summer of 1922s. The characters of the novel live on the "gold coast" among the villas of rich. We can see two perspectives, which author shows us. The first place on "gold coast" shows us the world of luxury, money and carefree life and the second place is the road from West Egg to New York, the "valley of ashes", it is the dirtiest place where we can see workers with gaunt faces. Thus, while looking at this locality around characters readers can see the stratification, which characterizes society in twenties in USA.
   As for me, this story is the best example of people from 1920s. However, the main character Jay Gatsby (originally James "Jimmy" Gatz) is not from that society. People are called “Bright Young People” that can see only appearance of people around them and tinsel. I can say that Gatsby is my favorite character because nothing can change his way and nobody can take away his dream. Although, some people can say that his dream has killed him but it is another question. F. Scott Fitzgerald said about it: “No amount of fire or freshness can challenge what a man will store up in his ghostly heart”. The author explains us the unique situation. We could see that man not only knows what he wants, but also knows what can make him happy. 
   When I was reading this novel, I saw only two positive characters Gatsby and Nick. The novel's narrator is Nick Carraway, a Yale graduate and World War I veteran from the Midwest. Nick is a man from preferred family but he isn’t in society of “Bright Young People”. He is different from them. That is why he could explain the story about Gatsby from another side. The novel begins when Nick rents a small house on Long Island, next door to the lavish mansion (Hotel de Ville like author called it) of Jay Gatsby, a millionaire who holds parties but does not participate in them. He holds parties only for her. He hopes that once she would come to him. She – is his dream, girl from privileged family, Daisy. It can be story of Romeo and Juliet, but Romeo made a mistake. She isn’t Juliet. Daisy is a woman from another world. She is from the world of luxury and tinsel. Gatsby was faithful for her all his life but she doesn’t need it. Gatsby have great imagination. He composed image of Daisy for himself. But, I think, she is not worthy of it. She is empty, like her husband Tom and her friend Jordan. Tom has mistress and bad character. Daisy and Tom don’t love each other. And I think they don’t love anybody. But they are both from preferred families and that’s why they are together. I like a phrase which Nick says to Gatsby “They’re a rotten crowd”. The words clearly express that people from privileged families can be emptier than empty bottle and, on another hand, Gatsby whose dreams, strong character and clear soul made him better than them. «The Great Gatsby» is probably the greatest novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald, book that offers damning and insightful views of the American nouveau riche in the 1920s. He is writer, who opens a new century for readers, «century of jazz». In my opinion, in the end of the novel we can hear blues. It is tragedy of one man who believed in his dream. Moreover, we can watch the movie, Leonardo DiCaprio plays his role really well. His smile is very similar to smile of Gatsby. 
