

Lyons, J. (1995). 2.2 Homonymy and polysemy; lexical and grammatical ambiguity. Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction. Cambridge, New York, 54-60.
In the chapter "2.2 Homonymy and polysemy; lexical and grammatical ambiguity" in his textbook "Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction", John Lyons presents the notions of homonymy and polysemy and provides methods to distinguish between homonyms and polysemes. However, the criteria for distinguishing polysemy and homonymy suggested by Lyons are not sufficient.
First of all, John Lyons presents three criteria to define homonyms: all the forms of the words under examination are identical, words are unrelated in meanings and the identical forms are grammatically equivalent. These are criteria for absolute homonymy. Lyons continues by defining partial homonymy: there should be identity of at least one form and only one or two of the above conditions should be satisfied. However, this classification is not sufficiently distinctive. It appears reasonable to divide partial homonyms into two groups. The first one will consist of homonyms defined by a grammatical criterion, whereas the second group contains homonyms distinguished by a semantic criterion. This addition is significant because Lyons writes in his chapter about the first group and pays little attention to the second one, however, both the groups of homonyms should be described sufficiently. 
Then Lyons introduces the notion of polysemy, presenting two criteria to define this phenomenon. To begin with, there is a semantic criterion. Lyons claims that two forms are polysemous if there is relatedness of meaning. However, this method is extremely subjective. For example, there was research on polysemy where many respondents considered such semantically different words as Russian "kosa" in the meaning of "plait" and "kosa" in the meaning of "scythe" semantically related. They claimed that the common trait of these words is "something which is "narrow and long".
Another criterion for polysemy is the same origin. Using etymology is a reliable method.  However, sometimes scholars cannot find the historical source of a word. Moreover, words can have the same origin, but then diverge from each other. Or alternatively, they can be etymologically unrelated, but later become close in meaning. Thus, we should use this method in combination with some others in order to receive reliable results. For instance, scholars can analyze regular polysemy. Different polysemes can have the same combinations of meanings. For instance, Russian words "institut" and "shkola" mean "a building", "people in this building" or "classes". Moreover, there is also a derivative criterion, meaning that words can have identical forms, but derive from these forms with different affixes. For example, Russian words "buntovyy" (bale) and "buntovskoy" (rebellious) derive from "bunt". 
Finally, the problem is that we often cannot distinguish polysemy and homonymy clearly. There are always controversial cases. For example, the word "mouth" in the meanings of "the orifice on one's face" and "the opening of a cave or a river" can be considered both as polysemes and as homonyms. Therefore, it is more beneficial not to divide words into two strictly defined classes, but establish a scale from homonymy to polysemy.
In conclusion, there is no doubt that the criteria for polysemy and homonymy can be improved. A valid way to distinguish these linguistic phenomena is to use the combination of different methods.

