Essay 1
The graph below shows the information about spending money on petrol by people from the United Kingdom and the United States.
The first line shows that in the UK poorer people spend 5 times less money of their income on petrol than in the USA. This information gives us to understand that in the UK penniless people mostly do not use personal cars unlike poorest Americans who spend from 4 to 5 % of their income on petrol.
The situation with the middle-income people from the UK and the United States is similiar. People from both countries spend about 3,5 % of their money on gasoline. The data of the richest people are similiar. The graph shows that people with much money spend 3-4 % of income in the United Kingdom and Americans spend 2,5 %. The figure of the richest people from the USA is quite strange because they almost do not spend much money on petrol and we can conclude that they use public transport or planes.

The data of 2 countries on the graph is almost identical but differ in the showing of poorest people.



Essay 2

Some people are sure that the Internet is the an excellent way for communication but others believe that it is not the best place for finding some information.

Nowadays we can find everything we need in the Internet : books, music, films, any information and even friends. With the social networks such as 'Facebook' or 'Vk.com' people can make new friends and it is really the best place for finding people with the same things in which you are interested too. You can use not only these social networks for communication. With the Internet we can send e-mails to the people from the other side of the Earth and it really makes our lifes easier. Also, there is 'Instagram' - the network where people publish their photos and leave comments. It is a very convenient way of talking without words. I believe that the Internet is an excellent way for communication with everybody.

But there are people who suggest that the Internet may not be the best place to find information. Their point of view is true in some ways because there are many damnific websites which degrade surfing in the Internet. The plenty of unnecessary advertising distract users from the thing they really want to find in the Internet. In addition, there are lots of websites which give us false information. For example, 2 different sites can give different dates of some historical events.

To conclude, it is important to say that the Internet is the best invention of the humanity and every owner of the personal computer surfes in the Internet much. without the Internet we will not have so many features that we have now.
