Are athletes and entertainers paid too much?
Really, in the past 10-15 years, earnings of many stars (lets call stars all the entertainers, sportsmen, actors, etc) have risen drastically.
Nowadays, salaries of sport and entertainment stars are sometimes cosmic.
Why are stars paid too much? Is it reasonable? I think yes, it is reasonable, and it is possible to explain, and with some arguments, to understand it.
I except talent, beauty, nice character and so on. Millions of singers, actors have them, but they are not successful and rich. Its too little.
I think, there are 2 things: entrepreneurial ability and a name, that  play a great role in wealthing.
First, lets talk about entrepreneurial ability. Every star is not only a star in his/her sphere. He/she is a businessman. If you a good businessman you earn good money. If you a star and a good businessman, you earn big money. Most of the stars are very active, they participate in many projects, work on TV and in media, take a lot of common and private concerts, they watch over the ratings, they invest in their body, looking, show etc. And as a result they make as much money as they can. And its paid very good.
So, I think many stars are famous and rich because of their entrepreneurial ability (or they have good agents and producers, but it is the same ability - to find people that can earn money for you, is not it?)
And if the businessman earn cosmic sums, its clear and not censured. They really earn that money by their labor. I can take many examples of that type stars: Madonna, Lady Gaga, David Backham,  russian Kristina Orbakayte, Sergey Lazarev  etc.
The second thing is a name. The star name is a brand, like clothing or cosmetic brand. Celebreties have been working on name very long. And the moment of fame comes. Then name works on a star. The gonorars for concerts are risen in geometric progression because people want to see well-known names on the concert ticket. T-shirts, cups, posters, souvenirs, CD and DVD are sell out because the face (the name) of a star on them. And fans buy them. Corporations invite star to participate in advertisement. They pay millions, because they know, that people would buy goods  their lovely star tells. 
As an example I can take well-known Dima Bilan. He presented Russia on Eurovision and won, he has many good songs and concerts, he showed world quality of work. And he became famous. He participates in advertising campany of Avon, and his name works on him and on Avon too. 
Suming up these  reasons, Id like to declare once again. Stars are paid much, but it is adequately their hard labor and high entrepreneurial ability. And name is paid much, because of their fame, investments, lots of working and quality. That's why I think stars are paid an adequate and reasonable level.
