The increasing of life duration always was a dream for humanity. However, the continuance of life has grown recently in the developed world; people understood that it can cause real problems for society. Nevertheless there are the numbers of solutions that can change the situation.
               It should be mentioned, that the increasing of the life duration can lead to huge ecological problem. There is a limited amount of water, sources of energy and food; only few of them are renewable. We live in a “consumer” society, which get used not to care about their future. All this can cause the lack of recourses in the nearest future, which will be a serious problem for humanity. Moreover, the increasing of the life’s expectancy will cause economical problems for all the countries and even the developed countries will not be an exception. The number of non-working people will rapidly grow, which leads to economical problems for the government, who will be responsible for pension and retired fee. It will definitely cause the growth of taxes and increasing of the working hours for the rest of the population.
              It is important that action is taken to solve these problems. People have already started to think about using the alternative sources of energy such as solar or wind energy, the special energy that is produced during the recycling process. If we begin to develop this field of science from now, we will prevent the disaster in future. Talking about the solution of the second problem, it has to be mentioned, that the government of every country have to reorganize the retirement system and make the pensionable age lower. The system, where people work longer, will prevent the crisis in national governments all over the world.
            To conclude, the growing of life expectancy is a wonderful changing of developed world, but it has also a negative aspects. However, with right actions of individuals and governments , the dangerous consequences of it can be prevented.
