“You may have heard of me.” 
That’s how the story of a hero begins. The hero with many names, and he says that he “has earned those names. Bought and paid for them.”  At the very beginning you don’t know it. You meet the main character in the Waystone Inn (which is in the worthless little corner of the world), and he is a common innkeeper named Kote. But quickly you understand that he isn’t an ordinary guy, just pretends to be. In some cases he behaves like he knows something that other people don’t know. As if he keeps something horrible in secret. And the author is constantly hinting at this. For example, when famous Chronicler arrives and asks Kote to tell the story of his life: 
“- So what can I do for you? - Kote set aside the clean linen cloth and gave his best innkeeper’s smile. -Something to eat or drink? A room for the night? Old wine, smooth and pale? Come now, surely you must want something? - As he spoke, his smile widened, showing too many teeth for a friendly innkeeper’s grin. At the same time his eyes grew cold, and hard, and angry.” 
There is something eerie and frightening in this, isn’t it?
Kote doesn’t want to tell anything about himself: “- I can tell the whole thing in one breath. ‘I trouped, traveled, loved, lost, trusted and was betrayed.’ Write that down and burn it for all the good it will do you.”
But finally Chronicler manages to persuade the strange innkeeper. And you find yourself in a completely truthful legend. The legend of Kvothe Kingkiller told in his own voice.
Patrick Rothfuss brilliantly injects the intrigue and you just can’t put the book down. First 100 pages are only the beginning  of the story, and I can’t force myself to google the summary, because it will be a hideous spoiler. I will definitely read further and will learn all the secrets of Kvothe. I suppose, this novel can become one of my favorite. Because at this moment I like everything in it.
I like the language of the book and its descriptions, many of them are unusual and accurately selected. (In one interview Patrick Rothfuss said that the writing of the book took 7 years, and another 7 years he was editing and trying to publish it). Everything here is in harmony, descriptions aren’t very poor or overloaded with complex verbal constructions, dialogues have both seriousness and humor. I like the style of narration so much that I want to add even more quotes.
I like this intriguing plot, I hope it won’t disappoint me.
There are 2 storylines: the past of Kvothe and the present, in which Kvothe tells his story and different things happen.
The major theme, which I detected from this 100 pages is “With great power comes great responsibility”.
Soon, I think, others will appear.
To sum up, it’s a confession of a hero with grievous fate. As Kvothe says, “If this is to be something resembling my book of deeds, I can spare the time. It will be worth it if I am remembered, if not flatteringly, then at least with some small amount of accuracy.” I think that such thing can be interesting to almost everyone.
