There is a very important and interesting question that all people ask themselves almost every day - to take a risk or not. So, with time society formed the opinion that people who take risks are much more likely to be successful. I partly agree with this point of view and I would like to explain why.
On the one hand, taking risks raises the possibility of being successful, because a person simply does something by it. Usually people do not do particularly anything or they prefer doing something less radical. Just because of this a person puts off success that he or she could have had if they had taken risks. Moreover, even the proverb says 'nothing ventured, nothing gained'. I cannot remember any serious occurrences where I have taken risks but there are a lot of cases that I have heard or read about. For example, a person sells everything including the house and the car, gets a great amount of loans and invests all the money in some risky new project and, eventually, he or she becomes a millionaire. People can possibly say that it was a cold calculation and the man estimated that he would become a rich man but others can say that he was a fool but at the same time he was lucky. And I think the last one will be right.
So, on the other hand, being risky is not always as sensible as it can be imagined. When a person is ready to give up everything that he or she has just to, maybe, become richer, to my mind, it is ridiculous and silly. In this kind of situation people can lose not only their money but their social status, family and friends. In my opinion, it is always a chance to succeed but in most cases this chance is so small that taking risks is not the best idea. While there are a lot of occurrences where people took risks and won there are the same amount of cases (or even more) where people lost everything. 
Summing up, I would like to say that taking risks is not a bad or a good thing. It is something in between of them that every person decides on their own. Taking risks can help people to succeed and it also can help to fail. Therefore people should minimize their risks as much as possible.
