Friends
	Friends play very important role in our life. I personally think that one shouldn't have many true friends. Two or three is ok, but more than these are just the people you know mostly because you are connected with them in some way. Colleagues, people, who you studied with at the school or university, friends of your friends are all form up your social environment, but they don't belong to the list of your true friends.
	From my point of view, most true friends come from our childhood or from school. Friends that you acquire after this time are less likely to become true friends, mostly they are "the people you know". One of the reasons is that people have less spare time to develop relations with friends, so some potentially good friendships may stay underdeveloped for whole life. It also takes significant time to "promote" a person to true friends. True friends prove their attitude to you in tricky situations, but if you don't have time even to meet your friends, you can't be aware of their attitude to you. It may take years to understand that this particular person is your true friend.
	Many people define true friends as those who are ready to join you not only in  good moments of your life, but also when life turns its back to you. Support in all forms is essential part of any friendship. Friends can help cope with troubles or cheer you up to raise your mood and they don't require anything in return.
	That's why it's obvious that friendship prolongs your life in comparison with those without friends. You stay more happy physically and mentally (and that was proved by scientists) when you have true friends near you. We can't choose relatives but we can choose friends - that's why we sometimes we love friends more than relatives.
	It's vital to maintain relations with all existing friends or you risk to lose them. When you have children, it becomes more and more difficult to meet with friends as most of your time is dedicated to kids. Apparently, no one wants to end life without friends but it's one's own responsibility to sustain friendship. That's where modern ways of communication like e-mails and phones come to help. You can regularly share photos with your best friends and it will improve your relations even if you haven't met for a long time.
