     In his radio program, Steven Fry discusses the problem concerning the difference between male and female ways of talking. To be precise, the assumption of how men and women use the language is being questioned. In order not to be subjective a few specialists were asked for their opinion.
     The issue of how language is used by men and women has been popular since 1960s when the rise of feminism was noted. About twenty years ago the problem of "sexequality" had an effect on language with the changes from mankind to humankind. While the attention in the West was absorbed to the idea of equalization, other cultures had very suspicious attitude to these innovations. For example, one of the speakers had a problem during a travelling to Africa, when the local migration department confused the abbreviator "Ms" in her passport thinking she may be a terrorist.
     Back to the language changes, Debra Cameron, professor of Language and Communication in Worcester College (Oxford), maintained that the notion sex deals only with biological features whereas gender describes social conditions for either man or woman. Thus, it doesn't mean that women are not able to have men patterns during their talk and the other way round.
     In the middle of the program some sketches were played. Apparently, they were included to show how differently men and women use the language and it is impossible for them to understand each other. For instance, when a woman said "You are so manly" that she should have meant "You need to shave and you sweat". Though, it may also mean that both man and woman understand each other too well.
     Jennifer Coats, professor of English language and linguistics, appealed to some features that may describe male and female talk. To her mind, women are more likely to be catty, a bit gossipy and to use laughter as an instrument for the attention. As for men, they tend to be heroic, factual and speak more about their success. Plus, they are proved to dominate throughout the talk. Although there may be some specific differences in the way how men and women use the language, but all these features may be adopted by the opposite sex. The speaker may perform as a man or a woman.
     On the example of the organization that is responsible for transsexual surgery it was described how people relearn some typical features of male or female speaking. First of all, vocal codes. Whether you rise or low a pitch the listener would define you as a woman or man, respectively. Secondly, a sort of breathy voice that is often found in women's talk. Thirdly, men have far more deep voice and are less expressive than women.
     Indeed, it is possible to define man's and woman's talking, but the point is that the features of using the language are not put into a person's mind from birth. The language is a means to present yourself who you want to be. Thus, girls may be tough, factual and show more power during the discussion; however, boys may be less strong, but emotional and even sensitive.
