The principal aims of this report are to:
1. Provide an overview of computer usage among students of my local community (Moscow)
2. Indicate main activities and tasks, dealt with help of personal computer
3. Provide data in comparison with another similar survey, held in 2004*, make recommendations as to how improve academic computing surroundings and thoroughly analyze the data in long-term way, in order to find out how aging and parental advisory affects computer interaction.
Participation
Twenty-nine of the people were interviewed. It should be noted, that those people had already done this survey 8 years ago. They were asked questions about their most popular Internet sites, availability of the Internet, access to their computers and some other questions. They were also asked to state their gender, which came up with proportion 16 males to 13 females.
Data analysis
1. 2004-data show, that access to computer depends on age category:
Year 2004:
40% are restricted by 1 hour a day
25% are restricted by 2-4 hours a day
20% are restricted by 4-6  hours a day
15% have no restrictions
Year 2012:
92% have no restrictions
8% agents stated, that they have to share the computer, thus, they are sometimes restricted by other users
This shows, that the main person in relations between pupil and computer. Emancipation and aging make the importance of this intermediary very vague. The proper conclusion is that parents of pupils should be taught properly how to deal with computer and how to help their kids to use it in the best way.
2. Year 2004:
30% of agents have access to the Internet
Year 2012:
100% of agents have access to the Internet 
This tendency is largely because of the developing technologies and spreading of the Internet. That was quite predictable and conjures up in mind the developing of the computer itself.
3. Year 2004:
15% of agents have more than one computing device
Year 2012:
69% of agents have more than one computing device
The same goes for this point - developing of technologies provides the necessity of having more than one computing device
4. Year 2004:
85% of agents considered computer necessary for studying
Year 2012:
97% of agents considered computer necessary for studying
There is no drastic change in the numbers, but the tendency shown is that computers tend to be more and more important
5. Year 2004
65% of agents stated, that they use computer primarily for studying
20% of agents stated, that they use computer for entertainment
10% of agents stated, that they use computer primarily for Internet surfing
5% of agents stated, that they don't use the computer at all
Year 2012
75% of agents stated, that they use computer primarily for studying
5% of agents stated, that they use computer for entertainment
20% of agents stated, that they use computer primarily for Internet surfing
0% of agents stated, that they don't use the computer at all
This tendency shows, that nowadays the role of computer in studying becomes more important.
Conclusion
Thorough analysis shows up, that computer becomes more in more important in educational sphere, and in order to keep this tendency, some long-term programs should be ran to educate children and their parents to use computer
