It is common knowledge that the problem of modern transport is very urgent nowadays. Of course, comparing with the selection of transport just a half of a century ago, we can see that the amount and the quality of options what we can choice have considerably increased and it still have been improving year after year. But the problems of transport always stays the same - for example, as traffic congestions, different kinds of pollution.. But is it possible to deal with them? What typical problems of modern transport should be taken into account before the appearance of new transports?
The first problem of modern transport is that people prefer using the road transport or the subway than any other else. The reasons are very simple to understand: these kinds of transport seem to be cheaper and safer.
But as a consequence people always don`t have enough place both in the transport and on the roads.The other one question is the problem of different kinds of pollution - for example, because of an enormous amount of cars and lorries in cities the air and the water there becomes polluted and very dangerous for the health of its citizens, to say nothing about the noise pollution that has a bad influence on the psychological state of the people. Also this problem is connected with the using of oil that is considered to be one of the most important resources on the Earth and at the same time - the case of many wars and the biggest danger for the ecology of our planet.
But how could these problems be sort out? The first decision that is evident to take is that people should think how to stop using mainly the road type of transport and think about the active using of others instead. It could be air or space transports like in many fantastic's movies and books, or may be something else. For example, the scientists in China have been developing the project of the train that will be launched in the 2020. The invention was called Vactrain. This kind of transport will use magnetic levitation and move in special tunnels. It is supposed to move at enormous speed up to 6400-8000 km/h, that wipe out even the possibility of traffic congestions and noise pollution because of its speed. 
People also could exchange their own cars on a kind of private air transport on electricity, like in "The 5th element" movie. This choice could also solve nearly all problems of modern transport, because it won`t use an oil and the possibility of a traffic congestion will ne very low.
But how to provide all people around the world with these new kinds of transports? Yes, it seems to be very expensive and difficult to spread, but I think that when the first vehicles are launched, people would be interested in them more than in their old ones and, as a result, it will lead to the appearance of economical models, as it was with cars.
But I think that once all these problems will be sorted out and I hope that I`ll become an eyewitness of these global changes.

