Do I have the faithful and true friends? I am sure that at least every second person has asked themselves this question more than once in a lifetime. The first time I have thought about it was after reading the novel that called ‘Three comrades’ by Erich Maria Remarque. (The original title in German is ‘Drei Kameraden’). 
From the first pages of the book, the main characters Robert Lohkamp, Gottfried Lenz and Otto Köster engage us in their sad, but incredibly amazing life. They became friends during the First World War’s French-German front.   After the war, they earned their living by dealing cars in their own garage and working part-time taxi drivers. One day, as usual drinking at the bar, the three comrades met an incredibly beautiful Pat Hollman. Otto and Gottfried highly appreciated the beauty, but the nihilist Rob has told friends that he will not set a relationship with her. But still they loved each other and strong Robert’s feelings to Pat changed his life and behavior.
But the fascinating story of love is just one of the reasons why you will want to quickly flip through page by page. By every chapter, every line, every word Remarque makes us feel together with the main characters of their joys and sorrows, their burdens and hardships.  Whatever happens, the comrades always help each other, support in the most difficult minutes. When Gottfried was killed, the remaining two friends felt the loss of a part of themselves. Soon have after that, when Otto and Robert was left bankrupt, they sold their workplace. At the same time, from Switzerland came the notice of Pat’s health. Friends without hesitation rushed to Lohkamp’s tuberculosis sweetheart in a sanatorium in the Alps. When Robert needed money for Pat’s treatment, Otto sold his beloved "Karl", the car, without which he could not imagine his life.  How do you think, is it true and selfless friendship?
Though guess what will happen in the end is not difficult, still hoping for the best until the last moment…
‘Three comrades’ is not just a love story for romantic girls, who want to cry about intrigues. This is a real masterpiece that reflects the most important and valuable things in our life. 
There are a lot of Remarque’s books about war, love and important human values. Each of them truly touches the soul and inspires for good deeds. ‘Three comrades’ became for me a reference book; many quotations from it have become my favorite and frequently used.  The novel was made into a film (in 1938 year) with the same title but in the film a lot of details were changed or lost. It is the reason why I love the book more.  And I hope that everyone will read this masterpiece and everyone has a true friend like Gottfried, Otto and Robert!
