Everyone knows that throughout the whole history transport was constantly developing. Actually, this process is still ongoing. Originally all inventions of different kinds of transport were based on elementary (basic) needs of people. For instance, our ancestors needed any vehicle to carry freight to another village. That's why the wheel was invented. And what do we have now? A big amount of it was discovered at our century of information technologies when the wheel looks really primitive. Moreover, nowadays we have so high level of globalization that we cannot imagine our life without any transportation between almost all countries. Transport systems composed of infrastructures, models and terminals are so embedded in the socio-economic life of individuals, institutions and corporations that they are often invisible for the first sight.
     So, what will we have in the future? There is a special method of extrapolation in current scientific investigation. This method bases on inferring by extending known information. It is assumed that the future will involve a technology that already exists, but simply operating an extended scale beyond what is currently possible. The parameters of such an extrapolation may involve a greater speed, mass availability, a higher capacity and a better accessibility, all of which implying similar or lower costs.
     As far as we know, the science of our 21st century looks forward to develop туц methods of transportation, as most of the technical improvements aim at using alternative sources of energy. Today's problem is to decrease the amount of matter which damages our environment.
     If we use these described above points, we will probably come to such a conclusion: transport system of the future would be rather useful and efficient. New electronic technologies and engineering are going to be high-developed. First steps have already been made. In witness of it we can cite as an example MAGLEV (abbreviation from magnetic levitation). It has the advantage of having no friction (except air friction) with its support and no moving parts, enabling to reach operational speeds of 500-600 km per hour (higher speeds are possible if the train circulates in a low pressure tube). This represents an alternative for passengers and freight land movements in the range of 75 to 1,000 km.
     Another goal may be achieved by means of new type of technologies which ought to be developed with a glance of using alternative fuels. For instance, advanced hybrids. Of course, nowadays traffic situation is really arguable but making a device which will be really useful for our planet and especially environment, should be the main purpose. If one day the majority of people start uses sun energy for vehicles it will be great success! I don't even talk about other ways of creating alternative sources of energy.
     To sum up, I would like to write that currently we have everything to go further with science: ideas, equipment, labor force and so on and so forth. It only depends on our aspiration for doing it.
