Critique.
J. Lyons, Linguistic semantics: an introduction, chapter 2.2 "Homonymy and polysemy; lexical and grammatical ambiguity".
The traditional definition of homonyms describes them as words, which are identical in spelling and pronunciation but have different meanings. Homonymy is consistently opposed to polysemy, which is defined as the coexistence of several related meanings in one word. John Lyons in his book "Linguistic semantics: an introduction" declares these traditional definitions to be correct but imprecise.  In the chapter "Homonymy and polysemy; lexical and grammatical ambiguity" he discusses these two notions and develops them more fully and strictly. 
Lyons begins by distinguishing two notions: absolute and partial homonymy.   To define both of these types he establishes four criteria: sharing the same spelling and pronunciation, unrelatedness in meaning, identity of all forms, identical forms' grammatical equivalence. Absolute homonyms should satisfy four criteria and partial homonyms should fulfill the first one and only one or two of the last three conditions. The last criterion seems to be insufficient. The author claims that the condition of grammatical equivalence is a graduated scale rather than a privative opposition. He also says that it is particularly important to note that the degree of grammatical equivalence can cause grammatical ambiguity of partial homonyms. So, homonyms can rarely be characterized as having or not having grammatical equivalence. It would be better to introduce a criterion of possibility/impossibility of grammatical ambiguity instead of the criterion of grammatical equivalence, provided by Lyons. Such criterion would divide partial homonyms into two classes. The first class would consist of partial homonyms for which it is impossible to result in ambiguity. For instance, "left" as an adverb or adjective can be never confused with the past participle of the verb "leave".  Those homonyms which may occur in the same grammatical environment would be combined in the other group.  Such distinction will clearly show the particular importance of the degree of grammatical equivalence.
After reviewing all the issues connected with homonymy, the author continues with giving the notion of polysemy. It is based on two conditions: the same etymology and relatedness in meaning. However, there is one criterion which is not mentioned in the chapter: identical grammatical characteristics. Grammatical characteristics are not as disputable as etymology and are not as subjective as relatedness in meaning which depends too much on researcher's opinion. This criterion would be helpful in many cases. For instance, Russian word "завод" as "winding" is singularia tantum and "завод" as "a factory" has both singular and plural forms. Another example is Russian homonyms "бунт" as "bale" and "бунт" as "riot". These lexemes have different derivative adjectives: "бунтовой" and "бунтовской". 
In whole, Lyons makes the definitions of both homonymy and polysemy more strict and clear in comparison with traditional definitions. However, the criteria for distinguishing these notions are not sufficient enough. The chapter would have been better with the addition of some new conditions.
