Harmful effects of tourism 
Turquoise water, soft sand, snow-white descents, stunning sights... That is what we imagine when we hear the word "tourism". But is the reality so wonderful? Scientists and environmentalists do not think so...
In areas where concentrations of tourist activities are high pressure on the environment is a serious problem that influences the natural environment - oceans, rivers, scenic areas and roadsides. Imagine the following: "Coca-Cola trail" and "Toilet paper trail" in the mountains. Do you think it is a stupid joke? No. There are real trails with such nicknames in the Peruvian Andes and in Nepal frequently visited by tourists, who leave behind their garbage and even camping equipment. Cruise ships in the Caribbean are estimated to produce more than 70,000 tons of waste each year, which can degrade the physical appearance of the water and cause the death of marine animals. The land degradation, air pollution, depletion of natural resources and so on can be also added in the list of problems.
The Loss of biological diversity... Sounds horrible. Moreover, it leads to the loss of tourism potential of the area. If the situation does not change, Hawaii won't be one of the favorite tourist destinations anymore, because 60% of the animal and plant species are considered endangered there in the last 20 years. Noise, littering, bright lights - all these factors put a strain on animals and cause them to change their activity patterns. In some cases, as in Kenya, it has led to animals becoming so disturbed that at times they neglect their young or fail to mate.
Drawing our attention away from ecology let's look at socio-cultural problems caused by tourism industry. Firstly, tourists often have their preconceived images about destinations before they arrive. And like misunderstanding between different cultures it can lead to conflicts between visitors and inhabitants. Secondly, commercialization of life in tourism oriented countries causes vulgarization of traditions in some cases and loss of cultural heritage in other cases. For example, resorts or hotels can be built in some culturally significant locations.
Of course, even considering all the harmful effects of tourism, we should not try to dismiss it altogether. It is important or even vital for many countries, such as France, Egypt, Greece, Israel and Thailand, and many island nations, such as The Bahamas, Fiji and Maldives. Tourism brings in large amounts of income in payment for goods and services available and it creates opportunities for employment in the service industries associated with tourism. It also performs recreational and educational functions.
Although to enjoy tourism advantages people should think about the way to eliminate its harmful effects or to make their influence weaker. The best solution is sustainable tourism (Eco Tourism) that attempts to make impact on the environment and local culture lower and to preserve local ecosystems. You may be interested, how it can be achieved. A good answer to this question is the example of sustainable tourism policy in Australia, where for instance aboriginal tradition owners, the Anangu, have given the name to the Uluru-monolith (Ayers Rock) in National Park by themselves and escort excursions for tourists. A system of fines, an informational policy for tourists and local nature conservation system are also possible solutions of this problem.
So, it is possible to make the image of flawless tourist resort real. Do your best and probably disadvantages will turn into advantages and you can easily enjoy your holiday. What is more, tourism has the potential to create beneficial effects on the environment by contributing to environmental protection and conservation.


