Two bar charts presented bellow describe the weight assessment amid the inhabitants of the Newtown in the years 2010 and 1950. The residents of this town were divided into five age groups: 20-29, 30-39, 40-49, 50-59, 60-69 years old. The following age categories were estimated according to the four weight divisions: underweight, ideal, overweight and obese. 
First bar chart which describes the state for the year 1950 shows that the percentage of the Newtown residents whose habit of the body is ideal never decrease lower than for the 44%. The tendency through the age groups distinguished can be traced easily: in spite of the fact that the percentage of the inhabitants with the ideal constitution is rather high the older the resident of Newtown is the higher is the probability that he or she will have issues with the weight. However, the cases of the overweight and especially obese are less frequent than the cases with the underweight. The percentage of the overweight people never grow higher than 10% and only among four age categories barring the 20-29 age group. The indices on the obesity cases never decrease more than for 5% and occur only in three age groups barring 20-29 and 30-39. The figures of the underweight are the second highest and can be explained by the wave of poverty that occurred in the postwar period, as the pull took place in the year 1950 when the world was recovering from the harmful consequences of the Second World War.
Going on with the second bar chart it can be said that the indices have changed completely for the 60 years that passed between these two pulls. The results of this pull are less optimistic than the results of first pull as the level of obesity amongst the resident decreased from the 5% to 60% in the last age category. Moreover, the cases of obesity started to occur in all age entities and decrease from about 5% in the first group to 60% in the last one. The indices on the overweightness take place in all the age categories and vary from 5% to 35% without showing any definite tendency. The ideal habit of the body is much frequent in the first age group and reaches 70% what corresponds to the figures of the year 1950. However, this frequency decreases and gets to the 5% in the last age group, what differs from the year 1950 for the 40%. Underweight level is low and reaches its peak in the first group and total 20%.
Both situations described in the charts tend to be abnormal as the first pull describes the anomaly high level of underweightness and the second of the obesity. Nevertheless, first bar chart give the higher percentage of those whose constitution is ideal that is why it can be concluded that the situation with the weight assessment was better in the past. 
