The harmful effects of tourism.
Imagine a stunning view of the Great Wall of China or Stonehenge. They seem to be very strong and eternal. And, of course, every person wants to see them he  or herself. And now imagine that they are completely destroyed. But the reason for that is not an earthquake or a flood: it is just the result of an intensive touristic activity in these places.
Such situation is predicted by the magazine Wanderlast. It claims that such famous touristic attractions as Stonehenge, Wadi Rum (The Valley of Moon), Pompeii and even the Great Wall of China are in really great danger because of an enormous quantity of tourists that visit these places every year. 
Unfortunately, there are some vandals who just snap off a piece of an ancient architectural monument with the intention of bringing it home and showing it to friends. But it is not the only problem. Not only direct influence could damage ancient monuments:  just being visited by overly large numbers of people can be fatal for them, even if they do not make any direct harm to it. Christiano Gasparetto, an expert in town building, considers the permissible quantity of tourists that could visit Venice to be 33 thousand a day. According to his estimate, exceeding this number causes inevitable destruction of the city .
Naturally, the activists from communities which protect the cultural heritage, the scientists and the governments of the countries where the endangered objects are situated are trying to find some solutions to this problem. The most common suggestion is to limit the number of tourists considerably. For example, the committee Italia Nostra suggests prohibiting independent touristic trips to Venice: they propose to introduce a centralized passing-through system (if someone wants to go there, he needs to sign up and receive an individual pass). The other idea is to draw tourists' attention away from these famous attractions. Thus, the Italian government tries to attract tourists to Heruclaneum with the purpose of decreasing the giant flow of people which  come down to Pompeii. 
But it is necessary to remember that as a result of such measures these communities could face a lack of interest in these sights among usual people. 'If it is so difficult to visit Venice, maybe it would be better to stay at home?' - somebody could decide. So there will be flawless undamaged architectural monuments which nobody is interested in. 
Whatever the solutions, any measure aimed at saving some monument should take into account its ultimate goal. If this goal is to the save the sight and then to show it to people, tourists' interests must be reckoned with, too.
