Tender Is the Night by F. Scott Fitzgerald
Review by Inga Kartozia
     
When you’re older you’ll know what people who love suffer. 
The agony. It’s better to be cold and young than to love.

Tender Is the Night is F. Scott Fitzgerald's final novel. The story brings us in the early 1900s to the French Riviera in a landscape torn apart by World War I. However, the chronology of the book is not linear. It begins in the summer of 1925, then goes backwards to the year of 1913 and finishes in 1930.

This book describes the life of high-glamour society who spend the whole summer on the shore of the Mediterranean See. Dick and Nicole Divers are a fabulous couple who lives in a villa in the south of France. Here they meet Rosemary, a young Hollywood actress, who arrived there with her mother. And soon the star joins an exclusive circle of Divers' friends and falls in love with charismatic Dick.

The storyline of Nicole and Dick was very interesting for me. These characters are based on the author and his wife Zelda who suffered from schizophrenia. Dick is a psychoanalyst, who used to work in psychiatric clinic in Switzerland. And Nicole turned out to be his ex-patient, who he was driven to marry. Reading the book we see the rise and fall of Dick Diver. He develops drinking problem, has an affair with Rosemary and loses his wife to Tommy Barban in the end. It is basically one of the underlying themes of the book: how one person becomes stronger by destroying the other.

I cannot say that it's the best book I have ever read although it was included in 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century. It might be interesting to look behind the scenes of glamorous life full of fabulous  houses, late night parties, noone cares about tomorrow. However, lost dreams of World War I generation, madness and deepest despair, love and reckless passion, ghosts of the past are what we actually see in Tender Is the Night. 

Tender Is the Night is considered to be an autobiographical novel with a third-person narration. In the book there are many biographical parallels between Divers and Fitzgeralds. Unfortunately, the real life story of Fitzgeralds ends more tragically. The author was writing the novel during his darkest years. It's an interesting fact that the original idea of the book was completely different and, in my opinion, it would be more fascinating and completely different genre.

To be honest, I was a bit disappointed with the finale, owing to the fact that it did not live up to my expectations.  Nevertheless, I enjoyed reading this book and I believe that it's worth reading.
