Some people think that it would be more useful for schools to divide and select students due to their academic abilities, while others believe it is better to form classes where students with different studying abilities are combined. 
On the one hand, it is hard to disagree that the first approach allows students with a high level of academic ability to study more efficiently. It is also easier for teachers to develop a program oriented to a group with a certain level than to spend all the time trying to keep in mind that throughout the lesson they should consider completely different studying abilities of their students. If they concentrate mostly on students with high studying abilities, everyone else will be just thrown out of the learning process, their marks will become worse and they will lose completely their will to study. If teachers concentrate mostly on students with lower academic abilities, those with higher abilities will just become lazy and unmotivated. So, as it seems to me, dividing students according to their academic abilities is a good way to solve this problem. 
On the other hand, having students with different abilities in one class may help everyone get to a good average level, and while for those with higher abilities studying won't be so hard and challenging, others may develop their studying skills and get to the higher level. The other thing that is very important to remember when we speak about this topic is tolerance. We need to remember that dividing students into different classes or different schools due to their studying abilities will definitely make a certain group of young people outcasts. And it is easy to understand that most of these people being constantly mocked because of the place or a group they study in will lose any motivation to study at all. 
In my opinion, the least harmful way to solve this controversy is to mix these two approaches. There should be lyceums for people with highly developed academic abilities, and yet, all the public schools should not select students due to their studying abilities. Then, the public opinion will consider those who managed to get into an elite school "really smart and brilliant-minded", but it won't judge anyone for "being too stupid" only because they go to a particular school. 
