Scientists persuaded the public that they were trying to predict the consequences of climate change, but they warned that the south-west of US would probably be under the water by the end of the century. Camilo Mora, geography professor at University of Hawaii, said that americans would have few place to go if they wanted to be in safe. He predicted that enormous high temperatures would be a common thing by 2050s. But he encouraged that Alaska could be that very save place and it would be placed next Florida.
Ben Strauss, director of the programme on sea level rise, encouraged people not to be afraid of future. He convinced them that the northern plains states would be safe, especially, the Pacific north-west. He told that the strip of coastal land from Canada to the Bay Area would be probably the best place for living, because there people would feel a lot less extreme heat.
Clifford Mass, a professor of atmospheric science at the University of Washington, denied all the information about a water shortage. He assured that they would have water because they understand the importance of it. He said also that Washington state was preparing to become the next Napa Valley in case of heating and drying California's wine country. Mass also added that people went crazy and put vineyards in eastern Washington now.

Article said the day before in Bolshoi theatre it was two premieres at once: debut of chief conductor Tugan Sokhiev and a returns of Tchaikovsky’s “The Maid of Orleans”. It has been shown in Bolshoi only once, he added, staged by Boris Pokrovsky in 1990 and that time Makvala Kasrashvili has been the diva. Last Friday aspiring singer Anna Smirnova has sung the main part.
Reporter told that to take the decision to return the opera was hard. It hasn’t been really popular not because it hasn’t been interesting, but because it has been very complicated. Firstly, it was difficult for opera singers, secondly, for staging. That was why they made a concert-version, he explained.
