

The chapter presents Lyons' discussion about two important topics relevant to semantics, to be precise homonymy and polysemy. It is essential to understand and distinguish these two terms especially for those who contact seriously with semantics, and it is also important for those whose work is connected with linguistics or with the language in general.

Lyons begins with the definition of homonymy and divides it into two types: partial and absolute homonymy. It is reputed that the necessary condition for all kinds of it is identity of at least one form. For the words to be called absolute homonyms he proposes three criteria (unrelatedness in meaning, identity of all their forms and grammatical equivalence of the identical forms) that must be satisfied. For partial homonymy only one or two criteria must be satisfied. The author also discusses lexical and grammatical ambiguity that often presents a result of homonymy. In the end of the chapter Lyons changes the subject and investigates polysemy which is a property of single lexemes in contrast to homonymy. He states that the difference between these two concepts is not always legible and that such criteria as etymology and relatedness in meaning help to distinguish one from the other.

Unfortunately there are some shortcomings in this chapter. Given information in not clear-cut enough. Firstly, the criterion concerning relatedness in meaning seems to be rather subjective, because everyone interprets meaning of words in one's own way. Secondly, Lyons provides his ideas with examples in English only, he mentions occasionally situations as regards other languages, but he gives no examples, thus some of his thoughts remain without proofs. The author failed to explain the difference between the key terms of the chapter as having read it a reader can not define exactly whether it is homonymy or polysemy. Lyons appears to be excessively self-confident, his phrase "the generalization that I have just made is undoubtedly correct" can evidence it. Such expressions do not look like good manners.

This chapter can be characterized by the presence of vague statements and the lack of non-English examples. There is little doubt that if the author had given more consideration to the part about polysemy and to various examples of different languages, the chapter would have been more valid.




