Review
John Lyons. Componential analysis. In  Linguistic Semantics. pp. 107-114.
In the chapter devoted to componential analysis in the book by J.Lyons the author observes this theory and the way it functions. Componential analysis is the theory which was firstly aimed to describe the semantical structure of any language with universal linguistic terms. In my opinion, it is hardly useful in its first aim - to describe and unify a language - and as a theory, it has some problems, but is can be successfully applied as a practical technique in contemporary computer linguistics.
The idea of componential analysis is that the meaning of a word is the sum of its semantical features - components. The example given in the chapter is the set of words: 'man', 'woman', 'girl' and 'boy'. All of them have the component HUMAN, 'man' and 'woman' also have the component ADULT, 'girl' and 'boy' - non-ADULT, or ~ADULT, 'man' and 'boy' have MALE, 'woman' and 'girl' - FEMALE, or ~MALE. The author explains the logics of the components in diagrams and mathematical expressions, which reveals the mathematical basis of componential analysis.  According to Lyons, the theory is widely accepted in the science and has its historical significance, however, no example of its practical use is given.
In this essay I would like to show some of the theoretical problems of componential analysis and the possible ways of its practical use.
The first problem is that comparatively few words can be defined with componential analysis. They include concrete nouns, some abstract nouns, a number of verbs, adverbs and adjectives. Moreover, some of the words have very simple semantical components, others have very complicated ones, thus the scales and formats of the definitions can be unequal. Since at least half of the words in most languages can not be defined, the goal of describing and unifying languages using componential analysis is hard to be reached. Also the components have English names, which sometimes do not allow to describe slight shades of the lexemes' meanings, especially if a couple of lexemes exists in one language and they are not distinguished in English. Then, English terms for components lack effectiveness. One more problem is the disability of the components to describe metaphorical and figurative meanings or to illustrate the usage of collocations. 
As componential analysis can have little theoretical use, for example, to study or describe a language, in can become an effective future tool in computer linguistics. It seems sensible to apply it while making some databases for languages. Using semantical components can help the user to find the appropriate word to express what he or she wants to say in any language that this database contains. The universality of the components helps to use them in many languages, and even check simultaneously in which languages the word or notion exists and in which it does not. Also the components allow to put lexemes into groups automatically and suggest the user the words of the group which interests him/her. Finally, the database based on componential analysis can be used as thesaurus or a variant of dictionary. Surely, componential analysis may be applied in many different computer-directed tasks.
On the whole, componential analysis seems to have turned from a theory to an effective prospective tool for computer linguistics.

