George orwell's animal farm is a very famous novel. It's the fantastic story about animals who have made a revolution on their farm, have driven away people and have made their own government. The whole activity of the animals is totally directed by pigs -- the cleverest ones in the farm. Firstly they had two chiefs -- two young boars, Snowball and Napoleon. Every Sunday there was a meeting, where boars proposed some decisions and other animals voted for or against them. One day Napoleon drives away Snowball and establishes a new order. In spite of the fact that the Animal Farm becomes more and more rich, animals, besides pigs and dogs, a kind of a police on the farm, save less and less freedom and even simple prosperity. At the end pigs become to live exactly like people - they walk on two legs, they wear clothes, they drink alcohol and they communicate with other animals like people.

Despite the fictional and even fantastic plot, Orwell's "Animal farm" describes a rather realistic society, where pigs are the upper class, and other animals are the lower one. Only Benjamen, a donkey, understands what pigs are doing, but he is clever enough for not oppose them. Some other animals, such as Clover, a horse, start to suspect that something is wrong, but they are too shy and week to agree with it. The image is awful for every person, but especially for Russian readers. The scary similarity between the novel's plot and the history of early USSR shocks everyone who knows it rather closely. In fact, one of the author's goals was to help soviet people see Russian revolution as he saw it. Of course, there can be some serious doubts about his opinion, but anyway Orwell succeeded.

The language of the novel is quite simple. As Orwell has said, this fact should help translate it to other languages, especially to Russian. But the main reason, I think, is the way of narration. The plot is described without any discussion, without abstract thoughts etc. -- just simple, dry facts. This is exactly the way how heroes understand the events around them. Nominally, Orwell isn't judging animals - he gives us the opportunity to make our own opinion.
 
Every novel's advantage given above is an excellent reason to consider it as a great book. But as for me, what makes the novel really wonderful is its capability to be understood both as a political satire and as a fairy tale, which tells us about people's (or animal's) craft and stupidity. Sometimes I think that this is not about politics and even history -- this is just a fantastic story about animals. Alas, a story without happy end. And may be this is why "Animal farm" is a really amazing book.

The book is undoubtedly precious for every audience. It tells us about some simple things that are dreadfully often missed. I think it is an obligatory reading for everyone -- especially for Russian readers. 
