"Fry's English Delight" is a documentary series that has been broadcasted in BBC Radio 4 from 2008 till nowadays. Six series have been produced, each one has included 3-4 episodes. The sixth aired recently, in August-September 2013.  In his series Stephen Fry, famous English radio and television presenter, demonstrates how various can be English language. Each of the episodes discloses different linguistic and sociological problems and mysteries of English. 
The episode, which I would like to talk about, is titled "He said, She said". It belongs to the third series and aired in 2010. In this episode Stephen Fry investigates gender, examining the differences in the way women and men speak and understand each other.  In this program Stephen Fry discusses this kind of differences with Professor Cameron. They examine different popular  jokes and clichés about misunderstandings between men and women. These misunderstanding are caused by differences in the way men and women express what they mean.  I believe that women and men are used to be different and this difference is logically reflected in language. Women and men communicate differently and often they do not even notice that there is some hidden meaning behind their words. That is the reason of misunderstanding and jokes. 
Professor Cameron talks about some of well known clichés of women's language: gossip and talkativeness. She notices that all people are different and men can also be gossip but that is some kind of fact that women like to talk about other people. 
In this episode it is also mentioned that when women talk to each other about some failures they would rather turn it into a joke, whereas man would be telling a story in which he would show himself to the best advantage.
Stephen Fry discusses a lot of very controversial things about language (including language of gays), but I m not really sure that this theme is very cognitive. Everyone knows  that women and men are different and I think that we should not discuss it.  Equally well Stephen Fry could discuss differences in women's and men's appearances.  
People enjoy differences, that is what make us interesting for each other. Sometimes we purposely speak differently with the people of opposite gender. 
To sum up I want to say that this episode was entertaining and very useful for people who study English. I enjoyed it. 
