Many American newspapers were full of headlines about the girl lunatics. Thea’s parents told that in the middle of the night their five-year-old child got out of the bed not waking up, put on her shoes and went outside. The authors of this article argue that in the sleeping state, she went through the tunnel for about one kilometer long, came to a nearby town and sat down on the porch of a completely unknown house. People said that there was a storm throughout the night and the thermometer showed the temperature below zero. Thea’s parents noticed that the girl hadn’t had any clothes except her underwear but after the incident, she was not only harmed but it was not revealed no hypothermia and even the common cold.
Thea’s aunt confirmed that her niece had gone out of the house at night and it had happened because of her dream that the house caught fire. Thea admitted that she had behaved well and moved only along roadsides to avoid being hit by a car.
Experts say that this case is unique. Scientists explain that sleepwalking is a circuit of brain centers and it is not a rare case of epilepsy so this phenomenon is more or less clear.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
According to the research made by St. Petersburg scientists, from the end of 2014 to the beginning of 2015 in the world the era of the Little Ice Age could start, and the phase of deep cold snap was expected to start by 2060.
Habibullo Ismailovich Abdusamatov, the Head of Sun Space Researches in the Main Astronomical Observatory of Russian Academy of Sciences, said that the ice ages was caused by changes in the distance between the Earth and the Sun and few decades later the Little Ice Age would come and the temperature on Earth would be bellow about 1-2 degrees by Celsius. A lot of people believed that a half of a degree was not so bad and the changes would be imperceptible. But Mr Abdusamatov argued that in fact there would be very significant changes that would entail a lot of other changes.
Scientists suggested that the deep cold snap in 2060 would last for 45-65 years and after that the next cycle of warming would come and it would be early in the XXII century.
Also Habibullo Ismailovich noted that the warming that we had seen in the XX century, was not only on our planet. He said that warming occurred on Mars and other planets of the solar system and the change of the radiation power of the sun was changing the climate of the entire solar system.
On the question of whether there were any changes in the climate today and what would happen to the humanity in the future, Habibullo Ismailovich said that in recent years there had been signs of lowering the temperature, and for the upcoming Little Ice Age we should take it very, very seriously. The scientist suggests that agricultural production significantly would be reduced, the wildlife would change, people could migrate from the polar regions to the south. Also they said that it would be difficult to extract oil and gas in the northern parts of the world.
Abdusamatov believed that it was high time "to harvest firewood" in the literal and figurative sense and it was necessary for scientists to think about this problem and work on it. He thought that they should take some points which were how many degrees of cooling were expected and what it led to. Habibullo Ismailovich warned that the humanity must be ready for what would wait for them in the future.
