A customer, performed by John Cleese, enters in the shop. He is carrying a large cage with dead parrot. He says that he wish to register a complaint. A shopkeeper ignores him: he is smoking under the counter. The client calls him, but he supposes that he talks with woman and that’s why he names seller “miss”. This “miss” straightens himself up right away and asks indignantly what the customer did mean, calling him “miss”. The other apologizes, pleads cold and repeats that he wishes to make a complaint. But shopkeeper refuses him because the shop is closing for lunch. The customer insists that he wishes to complain about the parrot and show the cage to the seller. Mr Praline (it’s a customer’s name) tells that he purchased that parrot not an half hour ago from that very boutique. The shopkeeper agrees and asks what’s wrong with parrot. Mr Praline exclaims that parrot is dead, but the seller asserts that it is just resting. Mr Praline repeats that he knows a dead parrot when he sees one, and he is looking at one right now. The both are gazing intently on the parrot’s corpse. The seller insists that the parrot is resting, mr Praline parrots the last word back and the shopkeeper confirms that the parrot is resting. Then he starts compliment the Norwegian Blue parrots on their plumage, but the customers interrupts him saying that the plumage does not enter into it because the parrot is stone dead. The seller reiterates that it’s resting. 
	Mr Praline makes a pause, then declares that if it’s resting he will wake it up and starts to yell.  He calls parrot and promises it a nice fresh new cup of fish if it wake up. While he is screaming the shopkeeper thrusts the cage and contends that parrot moved. Mr Praline contradicts that it was the seller pushing the cage. He disavows, Mr Praline insists, then takes the parrot of the cage, grabs it and screams it to wake up. It doesn’t respond and mr Praline begins to beat the parrot on the counter, then screams again and beats anew. At last he throws the parrot on the floor. It’s definitely dead. Mr Praline announces that is what he calls a dead parrot. The shopkeeper doesn’t surrender nevertheless: he claims that parrot is stunned.  Mr Praline repeats it in wonder. The seller tells it was mr Praline who stunned parrot  just as it was waking up. Then he adds that Norwegian Blues stun easily. 
Mr Praline exclaims that he has had enough of this. He repeats that the parrot is definitely deceased and reminds the shopkeeper that when he bought it half an hour ago, the seller assured him that it's total lack of movement was due to it being tired and shagged out after a long squawk. The seller explains that the parrot is pining for the fjords. Mr Praline repeats this nonsense indignantly and asks why did the parrot fall flat on its back the minute he got it home. The shopkeeper answers with alacrity that the Norwegian Blue prefers keeping on its back and repeat his remark about beautiful plumage of these birds. The customer has his own way, he says that he examinated the parrot and discovered that the only reason that it'd been sitting its the perch in the first place was that it'd been nailed there. The seller doesn’t become confused and asserts that it’s reasonable that it’s been nailed there because if he hadn't nailed it there, it would have muscled up to the bars and "boom". Mr Praline picks the bird up, demonstrates it to the shopkeeper and shrieks that this parrot wouldn't 'boom' if he puts 4,000 volts through it as it's bleeding demised.  The shopkeeper argues that the parrot is pining. Now the customers definitely lost the patience. He moans that the parrot is not pining, he exclaims that it's passed on, that this parrot is no more, it has ceased to be, that it’s expired and gone to see its maker, that this is a late parrot, that it's a stiff, bereft of life. He declaims that it rests in peace, that if the seller hadn't nailed it to the perch, it'd be pushing up the daisies, that it's run down the curtain and joined the choir invisible. Finally Mr Praline lifted the parrot and declares that this is an ex-parrot.  
The shopkeeper pronounces that he better replace the parrot and he is pretending to look for it.  At this time mr Praline says to the camera that if you want to get anything done in this country, and you have to complain until you go blue in the mouth. The seller returns and tells mr Praline that they are right out of parrots and propose a slug instead. Mr Praline asks whether it talk, the other answers that it doesn’t. The customer observes that it's scarcely a replacement then. Suddenly the seller confesses that he didn't want to work in a pet shop, he wanted to be a lumberjack. Mr Praline notices with astonishment that it seems to him irrelevant, but the seller puts his coat off and gaily howls that he will be lumberjack leaping from tree-to-tree as he looks down the mighty rivers of British Columbia.
