Needless to say that people's well-being is affected by our physical surroundings. 
The sensibly designed environment can offer a sense of belonging, thereby positively affecting wellbeing. 

In today’s fast-moving world people are continuously more critical and
sensitive about the design of the environments where they reside. In my opinion, increasing attention for the interior design seems to be rather a consequence of, firstly, the well-developed material conditions nowadays, and secondly, of the developments in the professional disciplines of architecture and interior design. To start with, while designing inner environments, many interior architects have focused on the fulfillment of objective parameters that can contribute to people’s well-being. For instance, when designing interior spaces, the concerned practitioners, tend to organize space in a most efficient manner, make it well-lit, and consider issues relating to sustainability or accessibility. 
However, being happy in an environment is not only a consequence of the architectural shell of the building, nor a matter of objective conditions. As far as I am concerned, being happy in an environment is related to what people that reside in the environment are able to do with it and in it. This is not due to the observed fact that we spend most of our time indoors, it is due, instead, to the fact that interiors surround us. We do not just pass them by on the street, we inhabit them. Naturally, when we enter a building, we cease being merely its observer and become its content. Actually, we never fully know a building until we enter it. It is often said that your mind is a reflection of the space that you inhabit. Therefore, people should create a space that appeals to all of their senses. People should feel that their bedroom is a mirror image of their spirit, so it is important to incorporate the things that they love, because being surrounded by these pieces will increase their sense of well-being by reminding of some of the most common sources of joy. 
I am convinced that the physical environment can affect the emotions and spirits of people. Noise, temperature and lighting, a sense of safety and vistas to look out at can influence the person’s state of being, momentarily or in the long-term. Moreover, the materials, lighting and decoration of an environment have a positive influence on the atmosphere, and thereby on person's mood.
