Nowadays children start learning foreign languages quite early - some of them begin to study English (for example, i Russia) as soon as they go to kinder-garden; and at primary school English has already become a compulsory subject. This school programme is thought to be more effective in comparison with the idea of introducing a foreign language as a school subject not earlier than at secondary school. I find teach a foreign language at primary schools productive and beneficial. However, in this essay I am going to look at both the advantages and disadvantages of this policy.
First of all, I would like to speak about a theory of "critical age for language inquisition". This theory stands for an idea that a person is able to learn to speak foreign languages fluently only before he/she reaches some "critical" age. As we take this idea into accont, the pluses of the tendency of early language teaching will be anarguable. Second of all, it is much better (and in some sitations easier) to teach a child clear pronunciation when he/she is only learning to write/read/pronaunce his/her mother langage properly. Of course, this may case some interference between languages, but afterwards it would be o problem. On the one hand, the sooner a child starts learning a language, the more chances to learn it well he/she has. On the other hand, it is too early to decide at primary school whether to learn a particular language or not - moreover, if a pupil takes no interest in langage-teaching at primay school (for example, english or French just don't appeal to him/her), but he/she is always made do the homework, this pupil is likely to lose any interest for learning languages at all. In addition, I would like to mention situations when parents, seeing that their children do well at languages at primary school, decide that some humanitary liceum/school is a proper place for them. In this case there is a sad hance of mischoosing and misdeterminig the child's future.
To sum up, I can say that it is a really good idea to begin learning languages at primary school - but it shouldn't be acompulsory subject for not all children are suited for them.
