Nowadays differences between countries and cultures come to naught little by little. The process of globalization is irreversible and unstoppable. Its influence on the humanity is enormous, but the opinions on this point differ.
I am convinced that globalization has its strong and weak points, but the first seem more important for me. 
Firstly, the globalization develops the economics. The world economic integration causes international competition that for its turn encourages the production and makes the producers achieve the highest quality of their goods. 
Secondly, it helps different nations and cultures to make a contact. The more we learn about other cultures? the more we share our traditions, our  values, our opinions on international level the better we understand each other. That's why globalization helps to overcome prejudices and to become more tolerant and opened to new experience.
Nevertheless there are those who don't agree with my opinion they treat globalization as a menace to our language and cultural diversity. They affirm that globalization erases our cultural identities, moreover some languages are endangered ant some of them have already disappeared because of the pressure of the English speaking world.
As for me the humanity can preserve its cultural and language diversity, we just need to pay enough attention to small and endangered languages, to revitalize them, to help them to spread and develop. 
Furthermore the globalization has another advantage that we can't neglect. 
Globalization creates an important basis for solving general problems of the humanity: especially ecological, due to the combining of the efforts of the international community, the consolidation of resources, and the coordination of actions in various fields. The ending result of globalization, as many experts expect, should become the achievement of the welfare all over the world.
To put all in a nutshell, I can say that generally the advantages of globalization outweigh its disadvantages. Anyway it is an inevitable process in the modern world, but the humanity can control it and make it beneficial.
