It cannot be denied that dictionaries which describe synonyms and differences in their meanings are vitally important in the process of learning a foreign language. In fact, foreigners cannot distinguish among different synonyms semantically and syntactically without the help of such dictionaries. The problem is that even the most famous and the most frequently used dictionaries of Russian synonyms (such as dictionaries edited by Abramov and Aleksandrova) contain only lists of synonyms, but no information whatsoever about their differences in usage. The first attempt to describe semantic and collocational information about synonyms was the creation of the Dictionary of the Russian Language edited by Evgen'eva. The dictionary contains meanings of words, grammatical information about synonyms, stylistic labels, semantic and collocational features of synonyms and examples of their usage. However, this dictionary has a huge disadvantage: the last time this dictionary was edited in the 1980s. Therefore, the dictionary can be considered outdated in many cases, as many new words and meanings have appeared in the Russian language since then.
In fact, there is only one modern dictionary of Russian synonyms (New Explanatory Dictionary of Russian Synonyms compiled under the direction of Y.D. Apresjan) with semantic and collocational information about synonymic entries. However, it only contains several hundred synonymic entries comparing to approximately 3000 entries in standard synonymous dictionaries. Moreover, articles in this dictionary are written in a language that is difficult to understand for non-native speakers of Russian. Besides, the Explanatory Dictionary is available only in printed form which also makes it uncomfortable in usage or even inaccessible for many possible users. Thus, without finding a solution to these problems learners of Russian face tremendous difficulties when trying to master the Russian language.
Thus, the long-term goal of our project is to create such a dictionary with about 3000 synonymic entries. Unfortunately, it is impossible within this course project. However, my colleagues and I set out to make a pilot version of a Russian synonyms database.  We have to describe the semantic and collocational differences among words in several synonymic entries in a simple language, so that linguistically inexperienced learners of the Russian language can easily comprehend lexicographic information and are able to make correct distinctions amongst different synonyms in practice. In addition, we create an electronic resource in order to provide learners of Russian with an opportunity to use the database of synonyms on- and offline.
