  Japan's Mount Ontake volcanic eruption injures 30.
The BBC's Rupert Wingfield-Hayes notified that at least 30 people had been seriously injured in japan after Mount Ontake volcano had erupted, sending huge plumes of ash and stones into the sky. The police informed that more than 10 remained unconscious and some had been covered by the debris. The reporter explained that the eruption at the 3,067m peak, situated between Nagano and Gifu prefectures, had tpapped hundreds of climbers who had been forced to seek shelter in lodges near the summit, some 230 had managed to descent and some 40 had yet to be rescued. The Prime Minister Shinzo Abe promised that he would authorise army units to help those trapped and he assured that officials had warned residents within a 4km radius of the risk of debris. Saved witness said that it had been like thunder, he had heard boom,boom and then everything had gone black. One of the climbers who managed to descend told NHK that there were 15cm of ash on the ground and immediately after he had watched the eruption, he had rushed away but had been soon covered with ash.
Film star George Clooney marries in Venice.
The journalist confirmed that Hollywood star George Clooney had married human rights lawyer Amal Alamuddin in Venice. The reporter admitted that a host of fellow stars had descended on the Italian city's canals for the union between the film world's most eligible bachelor and Ms Alamuddin. The reporter mentioned that Clooney's boat had been momentarily blocked by a passing cruise liner and then by a water bus, giving time for dozens of boats cerrying photographers to catch up and a police a police boat had swerved in vain to try to keep the paparazzi away. One female resident said that she thought that Venice is the city of lovers and they had chosen the right place. The reporter explained that on this autumn weekend like any other some more happy couples were getting married in Venice, too, and were getting caught up in the hoopla. Bride-to-be Catia said, posing for tourists, that you could marry whenever you wanted. Also happy husband Michaele said that it was a pleasure for them that a person as famous as him was celebrating his wedding there, just like them.
Eman Mohammed.
In the beginning of the speech Eman informed that when she had turned nineteen, she had started her career as the first female photojournalist in the Gaza Strip, Palestine. She said that her work as a woman photographer had been considered a serious insult to local traditions, and had created a lasting stigma for her and her family. Eman admitted that the male-dominated field had made her presence unwelcome by all possible means, they had made clear that a woman didn't have to do a man's job. Therefore Eman said that photo agencies in Gaza had refused to train her because of her gender and the "No" sign had been pretty clear. Eman Mohammed explained that three of her colleagues had gone as far as to drive her to an open air strike area where the explosion sounds had been the only thing she could hear, dust had been flying in the air, and the ground had been shaking like a swing beneath her. Eman added that she had only realized they hadn't been there to document the event when the three of her colleagues had got  back into the armored Jeep and had driven away, waving and laughing, leaving her behind in the open air strike zone. She said that for a moment, she had felt terrified, humiliated, and sorry for herself, her colleagues' action had been not the only death threat she had received, but it had been the most dangerous one. Eman pointed out that the perception of women's life in Gaza was passive, until a recent time, a lot of women hadn't been allowed to work or pursue education and at times of such doubled war including both social restrictions on women and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, women's dark and bright stories had been fading away. In addition she said that to men, women's stories had been seen as inconsequential. Eman Mohammed informed that she had started paying closer attention to women's lives in Gaza. She said that because of her gender, she had had access to worlds where here colleagues had been forbidden. Eman said that beyond the obvious pain and struggle, there had been a healthy dose of laughter and accomplishments and in front of a police compound in Gaza City during the first war in Gaza, an Israeli air raid had managed to destroy the compound and break her nose. She explained that, for a moment, all she saw had been white, bright white, like that lights. Eman said that she had thought to herself she either had got blind or she had been in heaven and by the timeshe had managed to open her eyes, she had had documented that moment. 
Eman explained that Mohammed Khader, a Palestinian worker who had spent two decades in Israel, as his retirement plan, he had decided to build a four-floor house, only by the first field operation at his neighborhood, the house had been flattened to the ground. She added that nothing had been left but the pigeons he had raised and a jacuzzi, a bathtub that he had got from Tel Aviv. Eman informed that Mohammed had got the bathtub on the top of the rubble and had started giving his kids an every morning bubble bath.
Eman Mohammed declared that her work was not meant to hide the scars of war, but to show the full frame of unseen stories of Gazans. She told the audience that as a Palestinian female photographer, the journey of struggle, survival and everyday life had inspired her to overcome the community taboo and see a different side of war and its aftermath. At the end of her speech she said that she had become a witness with a choice: to run away or stand still.
