Neuro- and psycholinguistics are extremely popular nowadays. Thousands of experiments are made every day all over the world, their main point is always to find out how the Language is organized in our brain and whether some linguistic theories are adequate or not. Undoubtedly, through those experiments we can learn not only linguistic issues but also much about language consciousness. In this essay, I will tell you about one of those experiments.

Lera Boroditsky conducted a wonderful psycholinguistic experiment on native speakers of English and those of Indonesian. After showing 3 pictures to the English and to the Indonesian and asking them which of those pictures seem more similar, most English picked two pictures with the same action and most Indonesian chose ones on those agent of actions was the same. Those results give us grounds to propose a hypothesis that English constructions are based on the verb and for Indonesian subject is more important. What is more, that can give an answer on the question of what conception of the sentence is better for English: we can see that those results confirm verbocentric conception even on psycholinguistic level. However, we cannot say the same about Indonesian.

In addition, I should point that the tense of actions on the pictures showed to those people was different. Two pictures, chosen by most of the English speakers as most similar ones, portrayed men who were about to kick the ball. On the third one there was the same man as on one of previous pictures but he has just kicked the ball. Thus, the English picked the two pictures with the same tense and the Indonesian chose those with different tense. Probably, it was caused by the lack of tenses in Indonesian. The tense of the action is more important for the English because of their language's richer tense structure. 

To conclude, it is extremely interesting how the Language is organized in our brains and neuro- and psycholinguistic methods can give us real answers on that question. Moreover, with those experiments we can understand which linguistic theories are right for a language and which are worse.
