Report on the use of Aloe Vera in medicine.
Introduction
This report provides a description of Aloe benefits in traditional and folk medicines and cosmetology. 
The report gathered information from the following sources:
- The survey was conducted among 120 participants, who ever tried at least once a kind of treatment with aloe.
- Leading medical journals and experts in the field were consulted.
Facts and findings
1. Aloe vera, also known as Barbados or Curacao Aloe, has been used in traditional and folk medicines for thousands of years to treat and cure a variety of diseases. 
2. It also appears that aloe gel has properties that are harmful to certain types of bacteria and fungi.
3. Remedies based on aloe vera are used for reducing inflammation, mouth infections, curing radiation dermatitis, sores and many other symptoms of illnesses.
4. You can purchase aloe in the form of capsules, tablets, juice, gel, ointment, cream, and lotion.
5. Aloe vera prevented the systemic suppression of T-cell-mediated immune responses and the production of keratinocyte-derived Interleukin 10 by UV-irradiated epidermal cells in mice. Compounds extracted from aloe vera have been used as an immunostimulant that aids in fighting cancers in cats and dogs; however, this treatment has not been scientifically tested in humans.
Conclusion
Although many respondents pointed out a wide range of medical properties of aloe vera extracts and products on its basis, the use of it or for the treatment of a variety of conditions and diseases needs further clinical evidence through well-designed studies with defined  aloe extracts and matching placebo controls.
Recommendations
1. You would rather consult your doctor before using products based on aloe vera.
2. It is essential to remember that aloe is safe when used in moderation, but there are a few contraindications.
3. Herbs can trigger side effects and can interact with other herbs, supplements, or medications. For these reasons, you should take herbs with care, under the supervision of a health care provider.
4. Aloe gel should not be applied to open or deep wounds. In rare cases, it may cause an allergic reaction, mainly a skin rash.
5. Taking aloe latex orally may cause severe intestinal cramps or diarrhea and is not recommended. Pregnant women should never take aloe latex because it may cause uterine contractions and trigger miscarriage.
