Chapter critique.
John Lyons. Componential analysis. In Linguistic Semantics. Pp. 107-114
	The chapter under review is devoted to componential analysis, a semantic framework that appeared in the 1950-s. In his chapter, John Lyons aims at defining the main notions of componential analysis and at highlighting the most considerable difficulties connected with use of this approach.
	Lyons defines componential analysis as "one way of formalizing, or making absolutely precise the sense-relations that hold among lexemes". The basic means applied in componential analysis to achieve this aim is using the sense-components. In order to illustrate the use of the method, the examples of defining several words are provided:
"man" = "human" × "male" × "adult"
"woman" = "human" × "female" × "adult"  
etc.
Giving the definition to the main notion of componential analysis, Lyons also illustrates the inevitable complications in using this approach as a means of making the sense-relation absolutely precise. First, he notes that the semantic components which are used in componential analysis are not entirely universal because they carry the meanings of respective English words. In other words, according to Lyons, the meta language of formal semantic is not abstract enough because of its English-centrism. Second, Lyons examines such notions as male and female and describes the difficulty of deciding which one is the basic. 
The author succeeds in presenting the conception of componential analysis and at the same time outlining its main drawbacks. His arguments could be supplemented in order to maintain the main conclusion: although componential analysis could be used efficiently while defining the simple notions, it has a considerable amount of disadvantages which prevent it from becoming an appropriate means to give the absolutely precise notions of words.
The argument which could be added to the Lyons's is the impossibility of using componential analysis in the realm of phraseology and synonymy. First, componential analysis would be entirely unsuitable if one needs to define phraseological collocations. For instance, to give a definition to the Russian word поставить one could use the components PUT and UPRIGHT. But this would not be appropriate for the meaning of the verb поставить inside the collocation поставить чайник. Second, componential analysis could not be used for giving definitions to the synonyms: смелый vs. храбрый in Russian, joyful vs. jolly vs. jovial in English. In terms of sense-components their definitions will be the same and the subtle difference in meaning will be lost.
Therefore, componential analysis is useful for defining simple words which do not have any synonyms and which do not occur in the phraseology. However, the delicate semantic differences and the unusual semantic shifts connected with synonymy and phraseology are the important issues of semantic science. Thereby, we have to admit that componential analysis has a considerably restricted area of application which makes doubtful its availability in semantic science.

