ex.2 p.7
I’ve been studying in the University Higher School of Economics for about 3 years. From my point of view, this is the one of most prestigious and respectable Universities in Moscow and in our country. It offers students a vast range of academic opportunities such as numerous vocational courses, exchange programmes, conferences, new startups. The atmosphere here is favorable for academic and professional development of students. At the same time our University request from students a hard work, motivation, tolerance, force and initiative. Lazy people study here not long. The biggest companies are lucky to offer students from HSE a job and visit The University and show master-classes to attract their future employees.   

ex.1 p.10
Our University Higher School of Economics is undoubtedly the best from student’s opinion, but one of the drawbacks in our student life here is the considerable number of student’s building all around the Moscow. The fact that we don’t have a one great campus instead many little buildings can’t but get upset. My faculty is living now on Trifonovskaja Street and the building is pretty gut and comfortable for us. It is not so big, but have a café and canteen, and also a pin-pong table, which is good – we can do some sport, if we have no PE lessons. The only problem we have is the fact, that we have to share our building with “Gasis” and it’s nit very comfortable for both sides. And one more thing that is really very irritating is a lack of free rooms, where students could study or just rest between courses, and the absence of the good library, of which I dream.  

Points summary. p.20-21
1) The number of children in developed countries leading sedentary lifestyle is increasing. 
2) Lack of exercise affects children’s academic performance at school and have a negative physiological effect.
3) Brain capacity and physical activity are related (fitter you are – larger brain capacity you have)
4) Regular exercises can increase the size of crucial parts of brain. 
5) Physical activity can help people to cope with memory loss and problem-solving skills in old age. 
6) Brain networks and structures change with exercises; they help to improve memory, attention, as thanks for them the hippocampus increased. 
7) Fitter people think more efficiently
8) Reducing the number of calories we consume could help to prevent brain disorders.
