In the fourth chapter of his book "Linguistic Semantics: an introduction" John Lyons considers the theory of componential analysis. Formerly it used to be applied widely; nowadays it is generally forgotten and out of use. However, there may appear reasons to doubt if it really deserves this complete oblivion.
The componential analysis decomposes the meanings of the words into sense-components. They are the set of semantic features which can represent the meaning of a lexeme. These components are not obliged to be primitive as they are, for example, within the theory of Anna Wierzbicka. The author provides easily accessible examples containing the words "man" and "woman". They are split into the factors "human", "adult" and "male" (or "female"). As soon as the features are organized as binary oppositions within the considered theory, the sense-component "female" can also be represented as "male" with the negation-operator "~". All the sense-components are asserted to be universal and feasible to be applied in any language. Though they are traditionally expressed in English, the words of any other language can be used as semantic features as well. It should also be said that the definitions made up by the componential analysis can consist of "one-placed" predicates or can be constructed as formulas with variables. J. Lyons succeeds in illustrating this by the example with the word "to kill". It can be identified by the formula "(x, (y) die) cause" which will be explained as ""x" causes "y" to die". That's what the theory of componential analysis is generally based on.
The practical advantages of such approach formerly convinced the linguists to get interested in it. The reason might have been its perfect easiness in applying to words like "high" and "low", "wide" and "narrow", "deep" and "shallow", "start" and "finish". They have clear and exact bits of sense and can successfully be put in oppositions to each other. As a result, componential analysis succeeds in dealing with antonyms and the words which have at least one antonymous component like Russian words "заговорить" and "договорить". But when taking not so elementary ones, the componential analysis fails in making accessible and comprehensive definitions. Almost any abstract notion can be considered as an example. This is not the only class of the words the usage of componential analysis is unwarranted to deal with. Even the simplest words like "chair" or "table" can be taken into account as soon as they cannot be defined comprehensively with the help of the features like "wooden" or "heavy" and nothing more. The problem possibly occurs in the fact that the sense-components used in the componential analysis cannot be organized syntactically.
Furthermore, the constructed definitions lack for the practical use. For example, for the learners of any foreign language it would be more comfortable to deal with the complex definitions made by the normal sentences than with the ones constructed by the componential analysis. They are considerably more difficult to perceive. Another problem is the sense-components can be represented by nothing but the words of natural language. So the inequalities can occur while dealing with foreign languages (and with the single one as well, as the words of natural language sometimes fail in representing the implied features). In addition, the sense-components appear to be not so universal as they seem. It can easily be proved with having at least one look at the basic word "adult", the meaning of which can differ considerably depending on the country.
Comparing the given advantages with all the disadvantages the reason why the componential analysis got out of use becomes quite valid. But now linguists succeed in applying computers to their science. This may start the rebirth of the componential analysis. Consider the fact that it may appear to be quite effective for making the corpuses of the natural languages. The semantic features can be used as tags and so ease the processing of the language. Even if they fail to build complete definitions, even a small quantity of them can become highly useful (like "animate/inanimate" or "male/female"). In my opinion, the componential analysis should now be reconsidered and upgraded as soon as it can bring the real practical benefit, though it still remains quite insufficient for the fundamental linguistics.
