In the modern society it is very important for a person to know at least one foreign language. Some specialist claim that children should start learning a foreign language at primary school rather than secondary school. Personally I agree with this statement an in this essay I will try to consider different points of view to make the situation clearer.
On the one hand, some research shows that learning a second language has a positive influence on other abilities and skills. For instance, it trains memory and broaden the way of thinking. It is essential to develop these fundamental activities in childhood and learning a foreign language is a good way to help in it. Moreover, according to the critical age hypothesis it is much more easier to aquire a language in younger age. In other words, if you have started learning a foreign language at primary school you have more chances to be able to speak it fluently in future. Also, I think  that if you begin learning a second language earlier it will be easier for you to learn third, fourth, ... languages. It seems to me that human's mind gets accastomed to the work done in person's childhood. So, learning a foreign language at primary school trains your brain and you can start learning another language at secondary school.
On the other hand, some parents consider learning a foreign language at primary school hard for their children. They may also think that in the early childhood people should play and walk a lot, for example, and studying takes their best years. Another argument supporting this point of view is that children at primary school cannot choose the language they want. the majority of parents think that they exactly know what their children need and don't allow them to make important decisions. It may lead to children's disappointments and deppressions in future.
To conclude, I can say that there are both advantages and disadvantages of learning a foreign language at primary school. From my point of view, the first ones overweight the second ones. However, everything depends on child's abilities and their parents' way of thinking. this question is ambiguous and it is worth to continue discussing of.