“Calico Joe” is a novel by John Grisham published in 2013. The story is narrated by a protagonist whose name is Paul and who is a son of an unsuccessful baseball pitcher Warren Tracey. Though the plot is based on real events, the author notices: “Don't read this with any expectation of accuracy. This is a novel, so any mistake should be promptly classified as a part of the fiction”. 

The time period in the story is divided in two parts: retrospections in Paul's childhood, and his present life in the beginning of 2000-s, with these parts alternating with one another. They show lives of 3 heroes: Paul, his father Warren Tracey and a young rookie in the Chicago Cubs baseball team Joe Castle who started his amazing and promising career in summer of 1973 and quickly became an idol of every baseball fan, including Paul. One day Warren finally faces Joe on the baseball field and during the game throws a fastball which hits him. The injury is so serious, so Joe is not able to continue his career. Though Warren denies he is guilty, Paul knows the truth. 30 years later Paul is going to arrange a meeting for Warren to meet Joe and to confess and apologize. But it becomes really hard to persuade both sides.  

There are three messages stated in the novel. First of all, the author wanted to tell that family is the most important thing: neither sport nor fame can be a priority in human's life. It is shown in the life of Warren. He escaped bringing up his son because an idea of reaching a great result dwelt into his mind. In spite of the fact that he tried to do his best, he didn't achieve his goal. Besides, his attitude to Paul was disrespectful and aggressive. The brightest description of his cruelty was in the episode of game in the backyard when Warren threw fastballs trying to hit Paul. The second message is that success in different walks of life is not eternal. The example of Joe illustrates it. He was a really outstanding player who achieved a lot, but all of it disappeared at once since he had been injured during a game. Also one of the most important messages is the ability to forgive. Though Joe could blame Warren for the injury which finished his career, he forgave him. So, the general idea of the book is that nothing happens in our life without consequences. Every time you should think about what you do and how it will influence your future. 

John Grisham's “Calico Joe” is his first book connected with sports. All his previous twenty four novels were devoted to law and court trials. But nevertheless, the author's style makes his this book very interesting and gripping. Grisham's language is exact like a language of law. But there are also a lot of professional words either connected with law or sports. There are no excess complicated constructions in the text, so the plot of the novel can be easily understood by people with different level of English. But at the same time, the text is not artificially simplified by the author, so we can be sure it is original and authentic. One more interesting fact of Grisham's novels is that almost all of them based on real events. “Calico Joe” is not an exception too. 

To my mind, the book is worth reading. First of all, because of its thought-provoking content. Though the problems stated in the book are obvious, they are the most important in people's life.  “Calico Joe” seems like a book about sports, but it is still about life. The ideas in the novel give us an opportunity to rethink our own behavior in order to make appropriate conclusions and become better. Besides, I like an exciting and moving plot which makes “Calico Joe” a real page-turner. I would like to admit author's description of emotions of little Paul when he was on the stadium where were his father and Joe. It was the most heartwarming moment in the book. Besides, I liked the well-organized structure of the novel with retrospections to Paul's childhood. They are not in chronological order so that makes the story line original. I'm confident I will read more books by John Grisham.  
