Speaking in public
Public speaking is said to be a phobia for many people. But most of them can't overcome their fears. Why does this happen? Are there any ways out of this situation?
Imagine being in the centre of people's attention. What do you feel? Your hands become colder and colder, your heart beats faster and faster, your knees are trembling. Your voice is weak and you feel as if you are somewhere far from the scene. You want your speech to be finished as soon as possible so you rush to the end stammering the words out. Why do people have such phobia?
Firstly, people are afraid of being ashamed. They regard themselves being silly as inconceivable. Secondly, they are so worried about making mistakes that they immediately lose their way. Finally, they are anxious about being misunderstood or disliked by the public.
At first sight, it must seem impossible to find the solution. Nevertheless, there are a few methods of controlling your nerves. Practice your speech to feel comfortable. You can learn the introduction by heart - this can make you feel more confident. But the most important point is to engage the audience. To achieve this, you have to carry on a dialogue with every person in the hall by using an eye-contact. Make the audience feel your soul power. Win them with your infectious smile. 
The second thing is to focus on the outer shell. For instance, pay attention to the clothes of the spectator or just notice his features. However, this can prevent you from being naturally. So make effort to look relaxed and self-reliant. Don't worry about mistakes, tell jokes and share your personal experience. Just believe you can.
Personally I have always been afraid of speaking in public. I have the same fears but I try to struggle with them. Frankly speaking, singing helps me a lot. I have been appearing on stage since I was 5 years old. But at the age of 8-10 a phobia came to me. At first, it was difficult for me to control my nerves. Later, I got accustomed to the audience and my voice got stronger and stronger. Today I can't say that I am used to being in the centre of people's attention. I have to improve myself and learn how to engage the audience. Though I am still trembling in fear before the concerts, I can see the growth of my confidence. And this proves that everything is in our hands.
To sum up, everyone is individual and there are no special rules for gaining confidence while speaking in the public. But the main thing is to make yourself believe that you can achieve your personal goals. And then you will be able to derive enjoyment from every appearance at public.
