Have you ever read something about omnipotent wizards, mysterious events, magic spells and unusual abilities, flying cars and live trees? This book is about the magical world, its inhabitants and, certainly, about one of the grandest wizards Harry Potter who is the embodiment of courage and bravery. Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets is the second part in the Harry Potter series, it was written in 1998 and devoted to Sean P.F.Harris (for Sean P.F.Harris, getaway driver and foulweather friend ), who was the author’s school friend and a prototype to one of the main characters Ron Weasley. J.K.Rowling is a British popular modern novelist, who writes in fantasy, tragicomedy and crime fiction genres. (The first part of the story about Harry Potter was written for the author’s children and devoted to them: “for Jessica, who loves stories, for Anne, who loved them too, and for Di, who heard this one first”).
The plot of the second book is more breathtaking and thrilling than of the first one. An orphan wizard Harry is in his second year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. He and his best friends Ron and Hermione are immersed in the daily round of Potions, Herbology, Charms, Defense Against the Dark Arts and Quidditch (the most popular sport in the wizarding world). However mysterious and scary things start happening: someone attacks on students who do not come from all-magical families, Harry hears strange voices and then Ron’s sister, Ginny, disappears. Thus, our valiant and bold friends try to understand the mystical events and prevent terrible consequences. So, certainly, Harry Potter meets the greatest dark sorcerer of all time – Lord Voldemort…
In my opinion, this book is for people, who like fantasy; it has a gripping and exiting plot with unexpected ending. The narration is consistent and logical, all characters, places and events are designated in details and fully covered. The character delineation is direct, and people who did not read the first part (The Philosopher’s Stone) will have a full view about an appearance of characters and places (Hogwarts or a cabin of the gamekeeper Hagrid). Moreover, the book language differs in simplicity and clarity; that is why it will be available for people with different level of English. For me it is a real page-turner and I couldn’t put it down while reading!
To sum up, I strongly believe that Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets evokes a sense of the magical atmosphere, with its miracles, marvels and perils. It is a funny, frightening and unexpected book, which will be adored by children and their parents.
