Componential analysis: advantages and disdvantages. 
This review is devoted to the componential analysis described in the well-known book Linguistic Semantics by John Lyons. This method was introduced in 1950's and was used to define terms of kinship. In his book Lyons describes componential analysis and aims at its advantages and limitations.
Componential analysis, which is also mentioned as lexical decomposition, is defined by Lyons as the partition of the sense of the lexeme into its componential parts. To explain the meaning of the componential analysis, John Lyons introduces several terms such as sense-components, operators, set theory and predicates. Sense-components are smaller parts in which the sense of a lexeme can be decomposed. As an example, the author shows decomposition of the words "man", "woman", "boy" and "girl" which consist of sense-components HUMAN, MALE/FEMALE and ADULT/NON-ADULT.
To reduce the number of sense-components, Lyons introduces negation operators to replace two binary components with one. The negation operator, like the conjunction operator and predicates, are taken from elementary set theory in which componential analysis fits perfectly. Lyons provides an example of the aforementioned lexeme "boy" as an intersection of sets HUMAN, MALE and ~ADULT.
The componential analysis seems a convenient way of defining the meaning of lexemes. However, this method has a significant number of disadvantages. The most evident of them is the limited circle of lexemes to which this method can be applied. It does not allow decomposing both complicated terms (because of their complexity, this especially refers to abstract terms) and some basic definitions (because of the impossibility to decompose them into simpler parts).
There are also two problems which are related to negation operators. One of them is the difficulty to define the "more basic" sense-component in a pair. John Lyons mentions this problem and provides the MALE/FEMALE pair as an example. The other problem which was not mentioned is the inefficiency of the negation operator rule in some cases. The reason is that there are sense-components which have more than two meanings (colors, for example).
The last but not the least problem is connected with idioms and stable statements in which simple lexemes change their meaning. For example, the Russian verb поставить means "to put an object on a surface" in its general meaning. However, in the statement поставить чайник the meaning is slightly changed. Now, if a surface is not mentioned, it is defined as a stove. In idioms such words can undergo even greater changes.
In conclusion, John Lyons mentioned that componential analysis is no more defended by linguists as it was several years ago. At the same time, he marks its considerable historical importance. So, though componential analysis has serious disadvantages like theoretical limitations, it has made a great contribution the structural approach to semantics.

