Review
John Lyons. Componential analysis. In  Linguistic Semantics. pp. 107-114.
Componential analysis is a method in semantics, used for explaining the meaning of a word with its parts. It was established in the 1950th and based on the ideas of N. Trubetzkoy. Trubetzkoy used differential phonological features to describe a phoneme, as componential analysis tries to use universal semantical features in describing a meaning of a lexeme.
The main idea of CA is that meaning of most words can be divided into some simple parts - common factors, - each of which holds some elementary indivisible sense. For example, in the course of CA the word "man" would be explained as 'human', 'male', 'adult' and the word "woman" would be 'human', 'female', 'adult'. For further simplifying of the formulae CA uses negation ('~') in binary features, such as 'male'. Now, "woman" can be described as 'human', '~male', 'adult'. For predicates and other lexemes representing relation CA uses functions. For example, "father" is (x,y)'parent', (x)'male' and "kill" is (x,(y)'die')'cause'. The asset of CA is its simplicity, the absence of syntax. Instead, there are elements of mathematics.
Although componential analysis is not as suitable for human understanding, it can as well be used in computer-operated tasks, such as semantical markup in corpora.
One of the basic causes of criticism of CA is that features are neither universal nor elementary.
In many ways those features are determined on the basis of the English language. This makes some of them lose universality by reason of relativity. For example, division by the binary feature 'adult' is not unambiguous from the point of culture, as 'becoming adult' can be understood differently depending on the culture.
Often the demand for simplicity also becomes violated. For instance, explanation of animal names uses some features as 'feline' (for "cat"), 'canine' (for "dog") or 'bovine' (for "cow"). These cannot be called elementary or indivisible. Of course, it leads  to the other problem: they are inappropriate for explaining figurative sense of a metaphor: you can call a child "kitten", but it will not mean that the child has any relation to feline.
On the other hand, CA can be exceedingly convenient for manipulating in computerized work. The laconism of such explanations makes the method suitable for this kind of work, accelerates the processing. A good field for using the method of CA is search in corpora with the use of semantical markup. Let us concede that we are willing to find every mentioning of clothing in, for example, "War and Peace". With the help of semantical markup we are capable of doing it promptly and exhaustively if we only search the seme 'clothing'
In spite of obvious flaws of CA in comparison to some analogues, more adapted for human speech, we still should not renounce the method. Taking into account the intensity of computer technologies development, we can assume that CA will be used increasingly in future.
