Tourism
	Different people like to spend their vacation or spare days in different places. Some people like to drink cocktail while laying on the beach chair all days long. They think that tourism begins with word "sun" and ends with word "beach". And it's enough for them! Obviously, such tourists are tied of work routine and just want to sleep and do nothing in a comfortable environment.
 	Others want to get back to nature by driving their off-road vehicles right into deep forests to prepare some meat on the open fire. The more faraway from civilization - the better. Guitar songs near fire in the evening, tents, slightly dangerous insects, fish soup or barbeque are all synonyms of paradise for these tourists.
	The other way to spend time is to visit different exhibitions or excursions to learn something new about the place you are at. This is more civilized way of tourism which allows to understand different culture and character of people that live there. Exhibitions add noticeable sum to trip cost, but it's worth it! Many tourists come to particular town just to visit certain place like zoo with rare species of flora and fauna or place that is not regular for other towns of the world like cafe where smoking of herbs is not prohibited.
	The different way of tourism is trips which involve extreme sports like rafting , jumping with parachute or mountain climbing. Such trips appeal more to people, who like to feel adrenaline in their veins. Though, such tourists have impressions to share with their grandchildren in the future about stunning locations they saw when falling from 4.500 meter height with a parachute on their back. 
	The tourist sector is developing intensively, so everyone can find the tour that will satisfy them in terms of program richness or from financial side. I personally hate wasting time laying under the sun rays, so I prefer tours to European countries that are full of exhibitions and sightseeing.  I like rambling through the streets looking at diversified structures, churches, statues or just houses decorated in native style. I can't pass local cafes and restaurants where you can feel the culture of people that live there. After getting your energy back with a cup of espresso, you can continue your walk to find new discoveries. 
	I would also like to try diving as a part of my trip. I believe it's very exciting to view extremely beautiful corals and rare fish around you or you can even try to explore a sunken ship. 
	Personally, I am more involved in "exploration" trips to civilized places (like medium or large town) rather than journeys to nature (forests, rivers) or extreme activities. My main objective is to learn something new about the place I am at, and I am going to do it through exhibitions and site seeing. I also like to watch how natives perceive life from their point of view. Life perception may differ significantly depending on location. 
