Topic "Some people believe that politicians and celebrities have a right to keep their personal lives private, while other people believe that the public has a right to know about the private lives of these people. Should the media cover the private lives of public people? Make sure you support your position with reasons, explanations, and examples."
      Recently, it's a very popular topic, discussed in press, internet blogs and different talk shows: should private lives of popular people, such as celebrities and politicians, be discovered by media or not. Social interest in this theme has increased multiply after the tragic developments of Princes Diane's death, which extremely influence on the public opinion toward limitation of  journalists` intervention, especially in paparazzi cases, to the private life of any person. But I think, it was rather a horror exception to the rule, an extreme, than a basic one. 
      Generally, the public, of course, has a right to watch the lives of popular people, stars, and even politicians by media means. The main reason why this right exists is that the public made all of these people popular. In other words, politicians and celebrities are the choice of crowd, which was made by direct or indirect way. 
      Usually people have eager interest in star's life mainly because it differs much from their own lifestyle. Celebrities are transported by Rolls-Royces and private airplanes, inhabit in beautiful residences, wear couture close and take part in executive parties. And people want to know everything, all the details in any area of star's private life. It has no useful knowledge, but entertains us and makes an illusion of complicity. This kind of interest has no limit in nature, therefore  media use scandals and rumors in order to increase circulation and audience, in other words, to skim the crème. Besides, many of celebrities attract an interest of public on themselves by doubtful means in a rush for popularity and it`s benefits, such as advertising contracts. Recently we can see a new kind of celebrity, call "newsmaker", for instance, Paris Hilton or Victoria Backham. For these people it`s a job to expose their private life. I think they don`t need any protection.
      To sum up I think that substantially celebrities determine themselves by their behavior how strong will be an interest of media to her or his person and they always have means to keep their private life in secret. We know many examples when the private life details of a very popular person do not become the public knowledge: Steven Spielberg, Ennio Morricone, Plassido Domingo, Margaret Thatcher, russian actor Maxim Sukhanov and so on.
      On my point of view there is a big difference between stars and politicians. I think, politic figure must be a rule model for society because she or he has great power to influence and change our life which is why a politicians carry responsibility, especially to her or his electorate. People have a right to know the truth about person, to whom they gave their voices and money. And if there is something serious to influence on a reputation of politic person it must be revealed by media as soon as possible. For instance, when the son of Russian Vice-Premier Sergey Ivanov killed an old man in traffic accident, his father attempted to hide this tragic fact, but it had become a public knowledge by media very soon, and it was a big scandal. As a result, Mr.Ivanov had lost any opportunity to continue his politic career.    
      To summarize all above it can be said that in case with celebrities media cover their private mainly because there is a great demand from both opposite sides: stars and public. But I think this process must be limited by moral standards of society.  In another case with politicians media has civil responsibility to the society to provide it with truthful information about politic figures because the freedom of speech is one of the basic principles of democracy. 
