John Lyons. Componential analysis. In Linguistic Semantics. pp. 107-114.
A significant number of scientists thought about creation of a special instrument that can help to describe different meanings of words with some basic and universal notions. Componential analysis (or lexical decomposition) is to solve this problem. It is a method which refers to the description of meanings of words through specific sets of semantic features. It analyzes the meanings of words by particular notions that can be compared with eachother. John Lyons is one of the linguists who investigates this question. 
The description of componential analysis in Lyons' book begins with illustrations showing how it works. For example, the words man and woman are defined like this: 
man = HUMAN & MALE & ADULT;
woman = HUMAN & ~ MALE & ADULT.
Besides, there are several versions of writing these definitions, but this one, more obvious, reflects the main features of componential analysis. This example requires some explanations:the words that define manandwoman are sense-components, symbols & and ~ mean conjunction and negation, respectively. In addition, there is another major fact that is needed to be mentioned about the analysis. John Lyons claims that The lexemes used so far to illustrate the principles of componential analysis can all be seen as property-denoting words, these words are known to be called by logicians one-place-predicates (expressions which have one place to be filled). For instance, in the expression John is a boy- John has theone-place-predicate boy. Furthermore, there are two-place-predicates.To illustrate this phenomenon Lyons cites as an example the word father. Itcan be interpreted as father = PARENT & MALE, but by this it cannot be understood that fatherhood is a two-place relation. Therefore, it is important to understand that a parent always has a child. However, when the variables are added the sense of the description will be more sufficient: father = (x, y) PARENT & (x) MALE. This means that x is the parent of y and x is male. At first sight it can be thought that everything is understandable and valid, but it is so only when simple words are discussed. 
Componential analysis is a controversial area that a significant number of linguists argue about. The first situation that raises doubts is the impossibility of explaining connotations. Although, for example, the word sisterin the sentence -this girl is my sistercan be defined as HUMAN & ~ MALE & SAME PARENTS. But componential analysis does not know how to describe the meaning of sisterin this contextafter this you are not my sister; there sister is something metaphorical that cannot be explained by means of the analysis. Specifically, definitions of some verbs are defective. For instance, the verb killis explained by componential analysis like (x, (y) DIE) CAUSE, which means that x causes y to die. This interpretation misleads people, because a speaker can mean the sense ofa person who committed a suicidethat can be a counter-evidence to the explanation of kill which is stated above. Meanwhile there is an indubitable advantage of componential analysis; the analysis is used in different computer programs working with semantics. In fact, various corpora use it for semantic annotations.
On the whole, componential analysis is presented as a useful instrument for computers and an outdated theory for lexical analysis by people. Lyons says in his book Componential analysis is no longer defended by linguists, on theoretical grounds, as enthusiastically as it was by many a few years ago.