Writing 1


  The graph below illustrates the percentage of income people spend on petrol in comparison between USA and UK citizens. The type of income is ranked and divided into three sections: the poorest, middle-income and the richest.
  The first thing to note is that USA figures are complete opposite to UK figures. Whilst indigent Americans spend 4 to over 5% of their money on petrol, indigent Englishmen are satisfied with half to almost 3%. In the second section the lines are getting closer: USA index is falling, when at the same time UK index is rising. That is, on average people with middle income spend 4% of it in both countries. Finally, money-men in UK expend around 4% and in USA – around 3,5%.
  These statistics lay out a question, whether the reason lies in the price or in the lifestyle, or maybe both. Conversely, it may have something to so with the whole different area.


Writing 2



   The famous dispute over the Internet is likely to be continued by lots of future populations. However nowadays there are two most essential questions; these are, in what degree it is suitable for our communication needs, and whether it should be recommended to gather information on. My own experience strictly suggests that one should be very careful using the Internet for whatever purposes, especially communication. 
   Firstly, people mostly socialize throughout such services as Facebook, Twitter, which means, they constantly reveal their personal information. Some diggers and private investigators might find it highly fortunate, but safety is now questioned. For instance, a woman can share on Twitter with her friends, where she is going to be this evening, what are her favorite places to be, etc. Hackers can get access to this information, or at least we cannot rule out this opportunity. As for looking up and googling things, the danger is to be misinformed. Undoubtedly, a vast range of knowledge people want to have can be presented in ambiguous way or even falsely. The need of caution is beyond any controversy. Every time we better read different views and statements, so that we could assess probabilities and devise our own opinion, or decide on the relevance and accuracy of the information we’ve received.
    However, the fact of the Internet being the most large-scale resource is also true. The extensive amount of facts and discussions, tips and recommendation passed along allow us, with the right approach, to cope with all sorts of situations. Returning back to the communication issue, Internet-based chats and social networks are fast, amusing and convenient. Although my vote still goes to natural socialization, i.e. meetings, going out with friends, because networks can’t fully replace that.
   To sum up, I consider gathering information suiting the Internet more, than the role of a chat provider. Even if you can do both in the Internet world, I prefer real life to the cyber one.
