Review
John Lyons. Componential analysis. In  Linguistic Semantics. pp. 107-114.
Componential analysis, alternatively called 'lexical decomposition', is a framework of analysis of a word sense. It used to be popular in the middle of the 20th century, but then it was forgotten and now is not used in its pure form. This paper sets out to highlight the advantages and disadvantages of the method and determine whether any principles of componential analysis may be practically used nowadays.
Componential analysis is the way of introducing the meaning of a word as a set of semantic features, which sense is more general than the sense of the word itself. These sense-components may be unordered and are not obligatorily primitive but are supposed to be universal and presumably exist in every language. For instance, the word 'man' may be analysed as 'human' & 'male' & 'adult', and, on the other hand, 'boy' is described as 'human' & 'male' & 'non-adult'.
It is necessary to notice that there are classes of words, which are convenient for lexical decomposition, but there are semantic clusters, which cannot be analysed.  Most traditional examples introduce terms of relationship, as the method is quite well-considered for this semantic field. However, it is more difficult to analyse more general notions. For example, the word 'nostalgia' supposedly contains sense-components 'feeling' and 'sad', but it is not evident what other components are and which of them may differentiate 'nostalgia' and 'melancholy'. This problem occurs when any term of feelings and emotions is analysed, especially if the notions are similar, as it is difficult to find components, which express the difference. Moreover, some simple objects as 'table' are also problematic to analyse: 'table' may be, for example, introduced as 'furniture' & 'four legs', but it is a description of a prototypical table and it does not cover all possible types of tables. These flaws also lead to the use of terms which are usually not well-conceptualised in the natural language. For example, 'canine', 'ovine' and 'feline' may determine classes of animate beings, but these classes are not as basic as 'human'. 
In spite of all the difficulties listed above, there are linguistic spheres where the use of componential analysis elements is reasonable. Decomposition of a word into cross-linguistically understandable components makes the method useful for the comparison of meanings of words in different languages as helps to extract nuances of a word's semantics and make them comparable. It may also be used in computer studies, for instance, in automatic text analysis or in ontology creation.
To sum up, the pure form of componential analysis is not used nowadays because of the difficulties in the theory and its application, especially in the analysis of certain semantic fields. However, it still may be used in certain applied fields as computer linguistics.
