The book I am going to present now starts in a rather unusual way: the author straightly claims this piece of literature to be the best work he has ever done. Considering that this author is Jack London – one of the most outstanding English writers  of 19-20 centuries – a reader has every right to expect something exquisite. 
“Hearts of three” was written as an adventure novel. The narration comes from the author – Jack London himself presents us the story, and though the book is full of unexpected turns, we can trust the narrator in his judgments 
The story tells us about adventures of the young men: Francis Morgan – a young prosperous businessman, Henry Morgan – daring and lively swashbuckler and his fiancé Leoncia Solano – the most beautiful and graceful girl a man can dream about. Destiny brings three of them together, when Thomas Regan – a friend of Francis’s father – decides to destroy young man’s business and therefore persuades him to entertain a bit and go on adventure after some mysterious treasures of old pirate. Being immensely bored with his luxurious, lazy existence, Francis takes the opportunity and sales to The Caribbean Sea, the Chiriqui Lagoon. It is there where he meets Henry and it takes men a few seconds to realize that they are completely identical, like two drops of water, except for Francis’s mustache and takes only a bit more to become best friends. It turns out that Henry and Francis a both descendants of the legendary pirate Sir Henry Morgan, whose treasures do really exist. Meanwhile, Francis meets Leoncia: the girl mistakes him for Henry and Francis gets an unforgettable kiss that starts very inappropriate feelings in his heart. The situation becomes complicated when Henry gets unfairly charged with murder of Leoncia’s uncle, though the real villain is Senior Alvarez Torres who has plotted all this in order to get Leoncia. Under such circumstances, our three heroes have nothing else to do, but leave the island and start their dangerous and breathtaking journey after the treasures, during which they will find new friends, risk their lives for each other, test the strength of friendship, reveal old secrets, face their true enemies and find their true loves. Basically, this is the story about all the good stuff on the earth – love, friendship, family and some global justice. Serving as a mentor, this book at the same time cheers you up and send away all melancholy whatever. I think that depending on the instant mood, the reader emphasizes different part of the narration, which undoubtedly proves how rich the content is.
The events take place on our time and, as I have already mentioned, begin in the Caribbean Sea – near Cuba, Panama and Venezuela. Such a place gives the story this unique Spanish spirit: rebellious, wild and passionate. Most of all we can feel it in Henry’s and Leoncia’s characters for they were raised in those lands. Francis, on the opposite, demonstrates his New York luster, high-society manners and cooler temperament. Thus, the author not only entertains us with the contrast of cultures, but also pinpoints some problematic sides of both. Journey leads young men through ancient parts of the world, where they meet local tribes and have to consider their strange and unfamiliar traditions. This constant change of scenes would never let the reader feel bored. 
“Heart of three” comes as a tide that captures the reader and does not let go until the latter fills all the spectrum of emotions from joy and excitement to despair and wrath. Jack London paid particular attention to small details that create the proper atmosphere in every moment. Conveying the emotional state of the characters or describing rapid chain of events, he used such accurate means of language, that you can actually hear, see and feel it, as If Henry Morgan stands right here beside you.  As well as giving the reader an enormous pleasure, this novel becomes a friend and a teacher. Although generally adventure novels are aimed at teenagers and seem a bit shallow for grown-ups, this one is different. This story induces to analyze, to imagine your actions in the same situations and sometimes it is hard to make a distinguish boarder between right and wrong. At the same time perfect humor and lively plot protect you from hard philosophical debates and let you enjoy the reading fully.  Jack London managed to show us life with all its quivers, controversial matters and not-always-happy-ending and made it a masterpiece. So, I can surely say that the author did not flatter himself in the introduction. “Hearts of three ” should be on your “must-read”  list for this book is worthy of every minute spent on it as well as precious are feeling and thought aroused by it. 
