The right to keep personal life private is guaranteed to every person by law in most countries including US and Russia.
My opinion is that a famous person has same right to keep his personal life private as everyone else. The thing that differ celebrities from ordinary people is that public wants to know as much details about their personal life as possible. My vision is that famous people should both use this interest and manage it. The initiative should be on their side and not on the side of spicy story hunters.
Nowadays celebrity, no matter whether he or she is a pop-star, movie-star, athlete or someone else, has a lot from a commercial product.
This product brings profit to everyone involved - the celebrity itself, producer, manager, record company, broadcasting company, media and so on. To maximize the profit this product has to be properly managed and this management includes also information about some facts of private life.
This is the only way to satisfy public interest and not to embarrass the famous person.
The information about private life of a celebrity that comes into possession of media should come from the manager or the famous person itself. All over sources of such information - paparazzi being the major one, are violating celebrity's privacy and might be taken to court. During real case of a celebrity against paparazzi or a tabloid my sympathy is always on the side of celebrity.
For politicians it is all the same with one remark. A political person has to be trusted by public. That is why in many countries politicians have to disclose their income and expenditures. This information is available to the media and to the public. Any other information about private life of a political person has to be managed in the same way as celebrity's one.
Media should also have clear policy and understanding about what information can be disclosed to public and what is private and cannot be printed or shown without permission.
Serious media would never tell rumors or show paparazzi photos because such kind of information will harm their reputation. Media should work with closed contact with celebrities and politicians for their mutual benefit.
