 The chart shows the information about the leisure activities in which three different social categories of people are involved. Theater as the place to entertain themselves has chosen the least amount of people in all three groups: 25% of migrants from English-speaking countries, 20% of migrants born in other countries and only 10% of people who were born in Australia. On the contrary, the most visited place is cinema: 70% of local people, 65% of English-speaking migrants and 50% of other migrants decided to pay a visit. However, it is not the most popular place among people that came from non-English-speaking countries as 55% of them prefer to spend their spare time in libraries, which is by 15% more than those visiting libraries from English-speaking countries and 17% more than Australians. These percents do not differ much from distribution of people whose most desirable leisure activity is looking at exotic animals. Zoos tok the second place among the types of entertainment for Australians and immigrants from English-speaking countries (41 and 50 percent correspondingly) and at the same time it is the second least desirable place for other migrants (35%).
In my opinion this research was aimed at determining what people from three social groups prefer to do in their spare time. The chart shows that there is correlation between the native language of  respondents and the type of activity they choose. For instance, in both places of entertainment where the knowledge of language is required (theater and cinema), percents of visits of migrants who were born not in English-speaking countries are low or, at least, considerably lower than percents of visits of other people. 
Another interesting outcome is very high percents of people visited cinema as well as very low of those visited theater. I suppose that such popularity of cinema may be caused simply by statistical bias. The new films appears every week and if the research did not consider this fact it can strongly influence the results. However it is hard to judge as there was no information given on the methods of research.
The theater is obviously very unpopular for all three categories and it could happened because of the image of theaters as an old-fashioned way to spend the time. Probably, the situation can be improved by including lessons of drama in school program or creating student theaters in universities.
