Review
John Lyons. Componential analysis. In Linguistic Semantics. pp. 107-114
The notion of componential analysis interests many scientists who explore semantic issues. Therefore, it is a basic and inseparable area of linguistics in whole. One of the researchers who contributed to this question was John Lyons, an English linguist, mostly famous for his works on semantics. In the chapter Componential analysis he gave a structural and detailed description of this notion and discussed the main issues which have to be covered while analyzing semantic structure of a word.
Componential analysis is only one way of formalizing and making absolutely precise the sense-relations that hold among lexemes. In other words, to analyze some lexeme, we have to explain its meaning using different simple words which are called 'sense-components'. To illustrate this statement Lyons provides an example of the words 'man' which semantically consists of three sense-components: 'human', 'male' and 'adult' and 'woman' - 'human', '~male' (~ is a negation operator) and 'adult'. Moreover, another part of componential analysis which is important to mention is terms of 'one-place predicates' and 'two-place predicates'. These terms show how many participants exist at some word. For instance, Lyons gives an example of the verb 'kill' as having two participants - who kills and who dies. Furthermore, Lyons does not only describe theoretical issues but also aims to give a formal and strict explanation to this phenomenon in terms of mathematics and logic. 
In general, despite some problems in theoretical issues, componential analysis is a useful method in computer linguistics. 
First of all, the features described by Lyons are too approximate; the data is insufficient and does not cover controversial points, for instance, metaphorical meaning. Analyzing the word 'man' in the sentence 'I saw a man in the street' we define 'man' as human, adult and male. However, in the sentence 'He is a real man' we cannot describe it only as human, man and adult because we need more sense-components for this meaning. Although we can add some new patterns to its sense-components, we still cannot incorporate all the meanings there.
Another problem is connected with the universality of sense-components. All the sense-components are presented in our brains, they should be universal and therefore, not so difficult. However, Lyons offers to use such complicated words as 'ovine', 'bovine' or 'feline' in sense-components which can be difficult to interpret. 
However, despite the above criticism, componential analysis is a meaningful method in computer linguistics. For example, we can sort words by a sense-component: if we want to obtain all the words containing 'non-human' and 'male'. Moreover, it would be useful in translation when some synonyms could be found by coinciding components.
In conclusion, componential analysis is still a basic and inseparable part of semantics even though it contains some problems in theoretical issues. However, the most meaningful and strong area of applying this method of analyzing a word is computer linguistics.