Nowadays, with constantly developing computer technologies, new opportunities appear and working conditions change, the whole world becomes a world of mobility, reactions and rapid adaptability. Now you don't have to spend 2 hours just to get to your office to work  - in fact, you can work wherever is suitable for you (if we are talking about those jobs that allow you not to be presented at the workplace). In the modern world you can finish your project at home, if you couldn't get it done in time and you have to present it tomorrow. You can help your colleagues or subordinates while travelling from country to country, so you can always be sure that your business won't go bankrupt while you are eating Bread Dumplings on leave. 
In my opinion, this mobility is definitely a cardinal virtue. But we should never stop asking ourselves: "Is this all for good?" 
On the one hand, the benefits of being able to work outside your workplace are quite evident. Firstly, the opportunity of keeping in touch with your coworkers always allows you to feel the pulse of the current events in your company, which is important because you need to react really fast to achieve the highest position among all the competing firms. The second advantage is the ability to change your decisions or business strategies whenever and wherever you want (if it is not to late), if some genius ideas suddenly strike your mind or you get the latest information that influence your work. 
On the other hand, it is believed that teleworking is not only a distant work at home with a cup of coffee and a plaid, but also a non-stop work. So, the most dangerous drawback of this new opportunity is that you lose your chance to fully relax sometimes, and, therefore, such style of work (and living) creates a real threat to your health and in few years you won't even be able to work as good as you thought you would.
As it seems to me, benefits of this mobility definitely outweigh the possible flaws, which could be eliminated by thorough and smart scheduling. 
