        The chapter Componential analysis written by a famous linguist John Lyons describes the way of formalizing the sense-relations that hold among lexemes, introducing the notion of componential analysis and its aspects. This concept, as he adds, involves the analysis of sense of a lexeme into its component parts and, what is more, is only recently has been employed at all extensively by linguists. Thus, this chapter can really help students who study linguistics.  
        First, the author sets an example of lexical decomposition, as an alternative term for componential analysis, showing that we can extract some sense-components from words like "boy", "girl", "man" and "woman", so the sense of each of the four words can be represented as the product of three factors:
"man" =  "human" × "male" × "adult" 
"woman" =  "human" × "female" × "adult"
"boy" =  "human" × "male" × "non-adult"
"girl" =  "human" × "female" × "non-adult"
Thus, Lyons compares it with mathematically precise equations using the multiplication-sign, he also involves such terms like "product" and "factor".  John Lyons continues with introducing concepts like negation-operator in order to distinguish positive and negative value of sense-component. An important thing to mention is that while giving explanations he himself inserts amendments, giving, thereby, the reader an opportunity to follow his logic. For instance, Lyons substitutes the multiplication-sign for propositional connective of conjunction.
         The author attempts to provide the chapter with clear structure and examples in order to make it informative. Thus, the reader can face many notions in bold and illustrations. Nevertheless, the chapter Componential analysis would have been more reader-friendly if the author had summarized the major terms at the end of it. However, the language of the textbook and its structure is undoubtedly perfect.
        Despite all the criticism above, the chapter Componential analysis is, indisputably, worth reading and taking into account as an example of a very structured and informative textbook's chapter. The textbook Linguistic Semantics will obviously expand your horizon as a reader and give linguists an idea of many notions, componential analysis in particular.