Ecological awareness in a local area
Introduction
The main purposes of this report are:
1. to evaluate overall number of people aware and concerned about ecological situation in their local area 
2. to find possible solutions to render the feasible help
3. to reveal factors preventing greater participation
I conducted a survey among thirty people of four age groups ('14 - 20', '20 - 30', '30 - 40', 40 +) in Moscow and nearby suburbs using the questionnaire provided.
The degree of awareness and concern
Twenty of participants of the poll concluded that they did not express any desire and intention to change the conditions thy live in. The smaller part of those respondents said that they see some possibilities to take part in improvement of the quality of their surroundings. Then the smallest group (about 15 %) pointed out that they need ways to realize this idea. A significant proportion of the latter offered their help and suggested some solutions in this matter.
Factors preventing from taking part in this issue
There appeared to be an on-uniform distribution between those who are ready to make some changes in their local environmental conditions and those who are not. 
The following reasons were given for lack of participation in this issue:
1. satisfaction with their local environment (13)
2. lack of time (7)
3. facilities (4)
4. money (2)
The remained 30 % suggested the following number of ways to realize these changes:
1. making leaflets encouraging people to think about ecological situation in their local area
2. organizing community work days 
3. to make a request  to local authorities with purpose to receive some money for territory upclassing
4. to make a complaint to local authorities in order to make municipal workers do their job regularly, in time 
Recommendations
In my opinion, trying to make more people concerned about ecological situation in their yards, entrances, etc. should be a priority.
In the light of the results of the questionnaire organizing community work days request to local authorities with purpose to receive some money for some needs would be the best options.
