My fellow citizens, I think there is no one who doesn't like our city, Moscow. How could we dislike these picturesque boulevards, these old small quite streets in the center of the city? Have you ever notice how wonderful Moscow seems in the early spring morning when yardmen just start their usual job and the sun gently shines in the clear blue sky?
There is no doubt that every city in the world has its own advantages and disadvantages, but our aim is that we should look for good sides of our city life and change situation with the bad sides of it.
Well, let`s think about problems. Maybe one of the most important issues is pollution. Everybody, I suppose, at least once in his or her life has complained about piles of garbage at the streets or about lack of bins in the center. Oh, I see, it`s really unpleasant situation, but why don't anyone try to change it? You can make your street more clear and good-looking even if you just throw your garbage into the container or make your own bin. So do it!
Talking about other problem,..
..to be continued.
Good communicators are born, not made.
There are a lot of points of view about this subject. We can`t say for sure if communication  ability is inherent or not, but we know a lot of examples, when people don`t communicate or make public speeches very well, but after some  time and some classes of oratory start do these occupations with no difficulties.
In my opinion, everyone can communicate easy with others and people just need some help from psychologists or friends sometimes. Well, there are some sociopaths or people who have no charisma, but their amount is so small in compare with overall quantity of people in the world that we can pay no attention for them.
Also all well-known public speakers start from studying in speaking or oratory courses, and there is nothing shameful in visiting such classes and schools. Who knows, may be exactly you will become famous speaker in the nearest future, even if you are shy student at the moment.
To sum up, we have one of the most important inherent abilities and it is the ability to speak. Everyone has it from the earliest childhood and all people are equal at the start of the life. However, following improvement is entirely depends of each one separately.
