Lyons, J. (1995). 4.2 Componential analysis. Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction. Cambridge, New York, 107-114.
In chapter "Componential analysis" in his textbook "Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction" John Lyons presents the framework of componential analysis.
In componential analysis (it is also called lexical decomposition), different lexemes are presented as combinations of several factors (sense-components). A lexeme is described by factors with the most basic meaning. For instance, the word "man" can be defined through the factors MALE and ADULT. Besides, most of the sense-components are organized binary. Therefore, if the componential analysis of a word contains the negation of a factor, there should be written a negation-operator "-" in its description. For example, "boy" = MALE & -ADULT.
However, this way of formalizing the semantic relations that hold between lexemes has some theoretical flows. Firstly, sometimes it is difficult to decide which sense-component is more basic. For example, the factor of gender. What should be considered to be more basic: male or female factor? Moreover, there are many cases when a non-binary sense-component is necessary for analyzing a lexeme. For example, the Russian word "podrostok" cannot be described both by approval and by negation of sense-component ADULT. Thus, the binary system of sense-components is not always sufficient.
Another problem is caused by the fact that sense-components are abstract and cannot be identified with words in a language. In fact, there are often differences in meaning of words with common sense, because different cultures influence their languages. For instance, it is necessary to describe colors. Therefore, basic colors should be chosen in order to create sense-components for colors. However, in different languages people distinguish different quantity of colors (in some languages even only two colors). As a result it is impossible to find basic colors for all languages. Thus, the language chosen to name sense-components will have an impact on them. 
Finally, lexical decomposition is useful in defining nouns, but there are some problems with analyzing other parts of speech. For example, it is impossible to analyze verbs without the system of predicates. In addition, some words have too difficult meaning to be defined through basic factors. For instance, such words as "predatel'". Thus, componential analysis becomes insufficient, when a word contains too many sense-components.
To come to a conclusion, this method is beneficial in formalizing semantic relations of lexemes and can be successfully used in machine translation, data search and electronic dictionaries. Nevertheless, it is often too formal and, therefore, not sufficient in describing semantic relations for lexicography.

