Review
Lyons, J. (1995). Componential analysis. In Linguistic Semantics: An Introduction. Cambridge University Press, 107-114.
The chapter under review introduces the theory of Componential Analysis (CA). Initially, CA was proposed by an American anthropologist W.H. Goodenough in 1956. It later refers to an approach adopted by structural semanticists in describing the meaning of words and phrases. This approach relies upon the thesis that the total meaning of a word can be analyzed in terms of a number of distinct elements (semantic features), that are primitive and universal. Plus and minus signs (as in the following instance, Boy[+HUMAN, -ADULT, +MALE]) are used to indicate whether a certain semantic feature is present or absent in the sense of a word, and these feature symbols are usually written in capitalized letters. 
This theory has been roundly criticized recently, on the ground that CA is controversial and inefficient as a theory of word-meaning. However, looking practically at the problem, CA can be useful and applicable in different areas of linguistics.  
For theoretical reasons, CA is undermined for certain crucial points. First, CA is limited in its range of vocabulary applicability. For instance, adjectives "long" and "short", verbs "buy" and "sell" can be easily described in terms of CA's rules, as they are obvious antonyms. However, not every word has its opposition in meaning, especially abstract terms (for example, Communism, feminism). 
Second, this principle is deficient in taking into account extra-linguistic context, including the tone of voice used, a common ground between the speakers and the intentions of the speaker. For instance, this method is inapplicable for the phrase used sarcastically or ironically (as in example, "Is your father a glazier?"), because it means radically different from the same phrase uttered literally. 
Third, with respect to the principle of universality, the meaning distinctions that are relevant to one culture may not fit another culture. For example, all cultures have kinship systems, but they are frequently organized differently. Some languages, such as Bengali, Telugu, Chinese, Vietnamese, add another dimension to some relations: relative age. Rather than one term for "brother", there exist, for example, different words for "older brother" and "younger brother".1 Hence it clearly follows that there is no universal set of semantic components from which the meanings of lexemes are composed.
	On the other hand, the binary principle of CA used efficiently in applied linguistics (for example, corpus creation, text mark-up, machine translation).The definite advantage is that it enables to encode semantic features to the simple meta tag language, that can be straightforwardly analyzed by computers. 
Additionally, it is a helpful tool for approaching unknown languages in the typological studies. For instance, a dual grammatical number of a certain language can be marked as a "categorical" feature. By applying this method it becomes achievable to observe how this peculiarity is conveyed, and whether it is distributed among other languages. As a consequence, the typological work on classification of a large number of languages becomes simpler. 
All things considered, CA has to be thoroughly revised as a scientific theory; still the perspectives of its use can be seen in practice.

