Inga Kartozia, 1401de

Opposition Leader

Educational system based on curriculi and standardized testing leads to establishing the system of indoctrination of the young, which only prepares them for life of conformity.

The one thing that doesn't abide by majority

rule is a person's conscience.

― Harper Lee, To Kill a Mockingbird

First there was chaos in the world, then the rules appeared. By creating rules in our life we actually make our existence easier and more clear. The vast majority of people believe that educational system based on strict rules developes conformism in children. But in fact, it is a misconception of this standardized system.

Initially, the framework of rules enables people to do really creative work. Just imagine, could you write a poem without any specific knowledge? Probably, the answer will be no. Education is about learning rules and how to use them in order to achieve your goals. Standards do not prevent from unveiling our potential.

Secondly, educational system based on curriculi and standardized test helps us to realize our potential. For instance, the goal to get a good grade is quite efficient, due to the fact that it also shows your level of knowledge, it proves what you are actually capable of. Society is always dissatisfied with strict standards, owing to their they concern that rules limit human's ways of self-realization. As an example, let's think about Higher School of Economics that has accepted international standards of education and now all its students are a part of world society. We have an opportunity to go for an exchange programm, get world recognized diploma, participate in international conferences, choose minors.

To sum up, I would like to highlight the fact that the main purpose of education is not diploma, but knowledge we get. Rules bring to our study routine more order and teach to manage tasks within framework. How could we say that person does not achieve anything by following certain patterns of behavior? When person is confined within standards, he is not influenced by someone's doctrine, quite the contrary he is pushed to think out of the box, to be creative. 
