The Great Gatsby is a very popular novel of the XX century written by American author Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald and published in 1925. It is considered the best portrayal of the Jazz Age in literary fiction. 
When the book begins, the novel’s narrator Nick Carraway, a young Yale graduate, moves to New York to learn the bond business and rents a house on Long Island. His next-door neighbor is a strange and mysterious millionaire Jay Gatsby (the main character), who arranges huge and expensive parties in his mansion every Saturday, but does not take part in them. Gatsby befriends Nick by inviting him to one of his parties, but he has his own goal. Jay wants to meet with Nick’s cousin Daisy. Nick finds out that they’re already acquainted: Daisy and Jay met five years ago in Louisville, when Gatsby was just a poor military officer. They fell in love, but then Gatsby was shipped overseas. Daisy didn’t wait till he came back and married Tom Buchanan. When Jay returned to the USA, he decided retrieve his lover and become rich for her.
Gatsby's tremendous ability to love and aspiration to fight for this feeling make this story noteworthy and moving. But he doesn’t realize that his dream is already in the past, because time has gone and he’ll never be able to turn it back. 
One of the main themes in this novel is loneliness. Gatsby can't understand these people, who have been born rich and never fought for the place in this world. They don't appreciate what they have, accept as something natural and self-evident what Gatsby has been achieving all his life, rising from the bottoms and breaking laws. Although Gatsby has got wealth, he didn't become one of those rich people known as elite.
Although this novel is light and easy to read, I didn’t find it lightweight or dull. The other merit of this book is the atmosphere and spirit of the Jazz Age.   
But this novel also has some disadvantages. When I started reading this book, I thought, that it was overrated. The reason is that it was tedious and hard-going at the beginning, there wasn’t any action or any development. But then I couldn’t put it down, because it became very gripping. There is one more flow, which I have to mention. The Great Gatsby is extremely well-written novel and I like its beautiful language very much, but it sometimes prevents perception and understanding the story. You digress from the plot because of manifold descriptions.
In conclusion I would like to say, that I really enjoyed reading The Great Gatsby, although it’s not my kind of thing. If you prefer thought-provoking books and enjoy reading about love, will power and devotion to dream, you will definitely like this novel.
