
John Lyons. Homonymy and Polysemy : Lexical and Grammatical Ambiguity. Linguistic Semantics. Pp. 54-60. 

The distinction between homonymy and polisemy is important to be made not only for the purpose of defining terminology, but also for the possibility to distinguish words that sound the same by chance from the ones that have etymological connection.

Lyons in the chapter Homonymy and Polysemy; Lexical and Grammatical Ambiguity of his book sets himself a task of dividing these terms. First, the author provides the traditional definitions. He describes homonyms as different lexems with the same form and defines polysemy as the occurrence of a few meanings for one word. In this work he offers the criterion of etymology as the main method of division. The author also claims that it is generally supported by the intuition of native speakers.
 
Although the criteria given by Lyons in the chapter seem convincing at first, they appear to be unreliable or at least insufficient in the end. 
 
There are many cases where the words' etymology is not known, which makes us reach a deadlock and the native speakers cannot help breaking the impasse. It is not veryconvincing that the speakers' intuition can be a significant criterion at all. For instance, the two meanings of the word 'pupil' are regarded by most people as the display of homonymy. However, they have the same Latin origin, the word 'pupilla' and according to the traditional definition should be considered polysemous. 
 
Moreover, in some cases the clear homonymous examples may be confused with polysemy. The Russian word 'лопатка' can mean either shoulder-blade or a small shovel. People generally think they have the same origin because they have a similar shape, but it is known that the first meaning came from Latin and the second one is Proto-Slavonic. 
 
As the second criterion is, obviously, not very reliable, the only necessary condition for distinguishing polysemy and homonymy is etymology, which is not enough for defining ambiguous words with unknown origins. 
 
Despite the above criticisms, to say that Lyons presented false criteria would be wrong. The only real shortcoming of this chapter is the lack of analysis of less trivial cases.

