Nowadays globalisation becomes the part of our lives. For the last several years huge factories have spread through all over the world. They have been built in poorest countries for world known companies, such as the Gap, Nike, Nestlé and others. Wand I want to research how Globalisation has influenced in child labour. 
In the nineteenth century in the developing Europe child-workers were common, many children worked hardly for sixteen-eighteen hours a day. They were engaged in manufacturing process in different ways, child labour was used in factories, plants and mines. During the twentieth century there were a lot of steps made to reduce the per cent of working children. In the 1989 the United Nations adopted the Convention on the Rights of the Child. And the number of children involved in hazardous labour has decreased in the Europe and America. 
However, Globalisation allows big corporations to carry their factories out to undeveloped countries. That leads to increasing the incidence of child labour, as people are not strict about human rights in those countries. The companies usually don't pay much attention to this violation of human rights as child-wage is lower than even unskilled adult's wage. 
Also, as globalisation makes the connection between different countries easier, many food or clothing companies don' produce materials themselves. They buy them from poor countries. In such countries huge plantations appear and the agrarian sector still remains the sector which needs unskilled labour which usually means child labour. For example, in Uzbekistan every school-child has to work at cotton plantations as children can be paid less the adults. So, the salaries in Uzbekistan and others countries of the third world has become so small that adults move to other countries And emigration of unskilled workers increases the incidence of child labour.
To sum up, because of Globalisation, child labour still remains the problem, especially in undeveloped and developing countries. And our society  still have to work hard to overcome this violation of Rights of the Child.
