CRITIQUE OF THE CHAPTER "HOMONYMY AND POLYSEMY; LEXICAL 
AND GRAMMATICAL AMBIGUITY" FROM THE "LINGUISTIC SEMANTICS" 
BY J.LYONS.

In the chapter "Homonymy and polysemy; lexical and grammatical ambiguity" of his well-known textbook "Linguistic semantics" John Lyons broadens the notion of homonymy and discusses the distinction between homonymy and polysemy.
First, the distinction between the absolute homonymy and the partial homonymy is drawn. According to Lyons, the main issue for the semanticist is whether and to what extent the homonymy arouses ambiguity. This criterion is used by Lyons to differentiate the absolute homonymy from the partial homonymy. The absolute homonymy leads to the ambiguity which cannot be eliminated by changing the grammatical environment, while the partial homonymy could not cause the ambiguity in the least. 
In the following paragraphs the author investigates the issue of distinguishing polysemy from homonymy. In order to separate the variations in meaning of a single word (polysemy) from the shape coincidence of the words with different meanings (homonymy), Lyons proposes two criteria: the first of them is etymology and the second is relatedness in meaning. He states the etymology to correspond with the intuitive differentiation between homonymy and polysemy made by an average native speaker. This fact is explained with the ability to metaphorical extension which everyone possesses. In other words, if a metaphorical extension occurred formerly, the speaker is able to repeat this semantic transfer at present. Thereby, the significant complexity is to draw a sharp distinction between the spontaneous extension of meaning of one word and using the transferred meanings of the lexeme which are in the dictionaries.
	In general, Lyons succeeds in explanation of the main notions in a clear way and in illustrating his point of view with the examples; however, the complicated cases are not discussed by him at all, therefore his argumentation does not seem to be convincing enough. 
	Lyons explains the new terms in a clear way, which is a considerable advantage for a textbook for students. The nontrivial notions of absolute and partial homonymy are defined in an accessible way; the problem of distinction homonymy from polysemy is drawn clearly and the notion of popular etymology is described in terms of homonymy and polysemy, which makes it precise and simple for the reader.   
	Having highlighted the main advantage of this chapter, it seems reasonable to mention the most significant drawbacks. First of all, the flow is not entirely logical. Beginning to discuss homonymy and polysemy, the author considers intuition of native speakers to be an unreliable and an ambiguous source and puts the following question: "What, then, is the difference in theory between homonymy and polysemy?" After that, the return to the speaker's intuition seems to be inconsistent.
	More of that, the argumentation of Lyons lacks the . It is stated by Lyons: "in most cases, etymology supports the average native speaker's intuitive sense of the distinction between homonymy and polysemy". It stays unclear which source the author used to make such a conclusion: there is no statistics and no descriptions of experiments which would prove this statement. The reader is also able to add more examples which contradict this statement. For instance, the word bay1 "inlet in the sea" and the word bay2 "opening in the wall" could be linked in the mind of the average speaker because of the common semantic component "the empty space which could be filled", whereas these words come from completely different origins. Thereby, the statement about the most cases stays unproved for the reader.
	The last drawback which is necessary to be mentioned is the insufficiency of the Lyons's criteria to distinguish homonymy and polysemy in some cases. The Russian words мир1 "peace" and мир2 "the world" could be considered as homonyms or as one word by native speakers, which could contradict with the etymology (these two words have the same origin) and the semanticist could have difficulties in making a decision on whether it is homonymy or polysemy. It seems reasonable to add one more criterion for such cases. For instance, the criterion of interlingual homonymy could be used. The word мир means both "peace" and "the world" in other Slavic languages. This fact means that this semantic extension is widely-spread among speakers of different languages and that this case could be considered as polysemy. One more example is the words право and Recht in Russian and in German: in these two languages these words mean both "the law" and "the right to do smth", which proves this case to be polysemy.
	Finally, it could be said that although Lyons broadens the notions of homonymy and polysemy proposing an original point of view on them, his statements have to be checked and the list of his criteria should be supplemented.


