The era of space explorations started in 1944 when the very first object, German rocket “V-2”, reached the outer space. The following breakthrough started the arm race two great nuclear powers took part: the USA and the USSR. Humankind witnessed one of the most renowned rivalries in its history and since that competition was introduced started to relate the issue of space explorations more with national idea and pride of particular state than with international business. However, some people do believe that such an association is false.

On the one hand, space explorations are quiet a “young” scientific concept as its age numbers only 50 years approximately. That is why it is irrelevant to connect them with the complex and contradictory international situation, which took place in the second half of the 20th century, including the phenomenon of the Cold War and the repartition of spheres of influence, as science has nothing to do with politics. Moreover, the staff of modern space stations are never monocultural and mononational.

On the other hand, contemporary situation cannot be described as international one since the space race was won by the USA and its main rival, the USSR, was eliminated in 1991. Nowadays the only country that put effort and money in exploration of space is America and we can see their work in process, for instance Mars rover “Curiosity”. Russian Federation as the heritage of USSR tries to create the semblance of the glory disappeared but because of the numerous corruption cases and overwhelming decay all the attempts are bound to fail.

To crown it all it has to be said that since space explorations are very specific sphere of science and mechanics the only people who can work on its projects have to be qualified enough. Today only USA can provide specialists whose qualifications are good enough to work in this field without threatening astronauts’ life and losing money that were invested in the project. Thus as America has such powerful position today hope of space exploration to be an international affair fades.
