It’s hard to find anyone in reading part of the world population who hasn’t ever heard about Harry Potter. A series of 7 fantasy novels written by the British author J.K. Rowling has become the greatest discovery in modern literature. 450 million copies sold, 73 languages translated to, thousands of fans all over the world, the absolute bestseller – even Bible is not that popular now! Actually it would be difficult to overestimate the merits of this unbelievable work. However, I would like to talk about certain book of the series, which is called ‘Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban’.
The third part of the narrative about young wizard was released on 8 July, 1999. By that time Rowling’s books had become extremely popular all over the world. The book as both previous begins at the Dursleys’ house, where Harry spends his summertime looking forward to the next school year in Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Relatives’ humiliation drives Harry to use magic which is prohibited in Muggles’ (non-wizards’) world and run away from home to escape penalty. Potter meets his best friends – Hermione and Ron and found out that a dangerous criminal Sirius Black had escaped from magic prison Azkaban. People said that Black had betrayed Harry’s parents and got them away to the most powerful dark wizard, Lord Voldemort, and that he now is seeking for Harry to kill him.  The school life is full of incidents: Quidditch championship, struggle against dementors, illegal escape to wizard country Hogsmead, confrontation of Harry and his haters Drako Malfoy and Severus Snape – all of this doesn’t make Harry, Ron, and Hermione to be bored. The climax of the story is meeting with Sirius Black and revealing the real things happened that time when Harry’s parents died. Undoubtedly the happy end took place, but by then the young wizard just got more quizzes to be solved which will lead to further adventures in this adorable world of magic.
To my mind, literally this book is a page-turner. Extremely well-written, with a fascinating plot and very logical and easy to keep concatenation, the narrative didn’t let me go until I devour it. Subjects of love, detestation, distrust, lie, human feelings’ power, the confrontation between good and evil, betrayal, setting a life on a chance to rescue others, witchcraft, nature, British customs and even politics – almost everyone, whether a kid or an old man, will find something  attractive. Often characters stand before a moral choice; their decision and its effect bring useful life lessons. 
J.K. Rowling made an entire world of wizard, so interesting and mysterious that sometimes you start to believe that this story is real, that somewhere young magicians study unknown disciplines, fight against evil, and fly on a broom. However, earlier or later, you return to the real life and get a feeling of regret that it is just a fiction. Or not?
