Sports are varying in different kind from football, tennis, basketball, bobsleigh or even horse riding. Involving animals in sports have been a controversial issue for recent years. Nowadays, as animals are often get unpleasant things from the trainer a lot of people maintain that sports involving animals should be banned, while some oppose that idea. 
In today’s fast-moving world sports such as polo and horse riding are generally considered acceptable and also respectable, while sports such as rodeo and animal fighting are subjected to contrasting opinions. Animal sports lovers argue that the animals are doing what they do naturally.  For instance, horses love to run, wild dogs naturally fight over who will lead the pack and cocks commonly fight with each other. When animals are being used in sport, they usually enjoy being part of the activity. Therefore when animals are used in sport, it is beneficial to both the humans and the animals. Animals have the right to compete and become known or famous and it is our responsibility to give them this opportunity.
In contrast, some people argue that animal sports are not sports, but performances where animals are forced to participate in. They consider that in these situations animals are not behaving naturally but rather doing things that they are trained to do. Whereas the audiences find the show really interesting and enjoyable, the animals often get tortured and hurt while undergoing the process of training and in the worst case they suffered then ended up in death. For example we can take greyhound racing. In this racing, the dogs are to pass through certain challenges, and whenever the dogs are not able to do it, they are being kicked. Unfortunately, in this phase, dogs often lose their life.
Generally, it is accepted that humans have become more civilized in their treatment of animals in sport, and today sometimes they are treated better than the human. People involved in these types of sports claim that the animals are well cared because their welfare is crucial to the success of the sport and the involved people.
In conclusion, it can be said that the well-being of animals is the necessary condition to the practice of these sports and the decision of banning sports that involve animals cannot be considered as a solution as it considers just one side of the issue.
