The comedy science fiction novel The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy by Doughlas Adams is not only about space hitchhiking, intructions or something like that. It is actually about “Life, Universe and Everything”, just as a famous question raised in it. There are the main characters, the general storyline, the major events but they are all connected with smaller events and lives which seem to be of less importance. The whole story proves that one can never know which things do matter and which things do not.
The main character is Arthur Dent, a common English citizen who once has happened to safe an alien who have become his friend and goes by name Ford Prefect without revealing his true identity. The action begins with the appearance of the Vogon fleet which demolishes the Earth in order to build a bypass just as constructors demolished Dent’s house. What an irony! And actually the whole story is full of it. Ironically, only two Earthmen, who know each other, survive. Ironically, the answer to the Ultimate Question of Life, Universe and Everything (the real one) could be given with the help of the destroyed planet. Ironically, those who organize its reconstruction are two mice occasionally taken by one of survivors to her space journey, and even more. The book is full of such surprising occasional things and coincidences, which may seem absurd but wonderfully match the story. All of it makes me think that the main theme of the novel is that everything in this life is can be not what it seems or not what you think of it. The world is an endless place to explore and the more you find the more unknown things appear, that’s why it is vital not to stop and be always ready for twists. Or “to know where your towel is”, as the Guide recommends.
The narration is third-person and although the main story line is centered on Arthur’s adventures the author also tells reader a number of other stories about other characters, fates and events. The style which the author uses sometimes makes you feel like being in a center of great conversation – it is not bookish but it does not mean it is simple or primitive. The reason is that the novel is actually an adaptation of Doughlas Adams’ radio series, that’s why the language is so living and natural. Thanks to it the book is rather easy to read, even though it is full of unusual vocabulary, idioms and puns.
However, such characteristics are common for most of Adams’ works. The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy is one of the most significant and influential of them but he is also famous for scripts for some episodes of The Monty Python’s Flying Circus and other sketches, several episodes of Doctor Who and detective novel Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency. Speaking about the influence of The Guide, it cannot be exaggerated. The novel and ideas described in it are appreciated not only by science fiction fans but also by the scientific community. Nowadays many writers and speakers on popular science quote the books and use examples taken from it, and other science fiction stories are full of references and quotations. Numerous jokes and puns from the book became extremely popular, for instance, using “forty-two” as an answer (or instead of one) for any question.
I have read this novel because I do love science fiction and Doughlas Adams’ masterpiece is one of classic works and a kind of a must for any fan. And the book met all my expectations, it turned out to be as great as I expected. As I have already mentioned, I was really pleased by the style and the narration, but the best impression was made by the plot. Sometimes it may seem mad or unrealistic but these are the major benefits of it. I would definitely recommend it to everyone who is into fiction and appreciates good humor not only in form of jokes but in everything. This novel does deserve its popularity and love and I guess that everyone ought to ensure.
