Critique of a chapter "Homonymy and polysemy; lexical and grammatical ambiguity"

The definition of homonymy and the differences between it and polysemy have often been the subject of scientific arguments. In his textbook "Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction" John Lyons provides his own view on that matter.
The first notion discussed by the author is the absolute homonymy. Lyons starts with providing the criteria which define it: lexemes are absolute homonyms if they are unrelated in meaning with all their forms being identical and grammatically equivalent. In the following paragraphs he outlines different cases of partial homonymy: the instance of lexemes fulfilling one or two of these conditions. He also deals with grammatical equivalence, particularly highlighting that it is important for the semantics to consider it. Lyons claims that it determines whether some cases of partial homonymy will result in ambiguity or not. Then he emphasizes that partial homonymy does not always involve identity of citation forms or the underlying base-forms. The author continues with defining polysemy and stating that the distinction between it and homonymy is not always clear.  He mentions two criteria, which could make the differences more distinct: etymology and relatedness of meaning, providing several examples to illustrate this point. The first one generally supports the intuition of a native speaker due to the metaphorical extension of a lexeme's meaning. Lyons concludes with saying that sometimes it is impossible to distinguish between spontaneous extension of meaning and the use of institutionalized meanings from a dictionary. This fact, in his opinion, has some significant implications for linguistic theory.
Unfortunately, while many of Lyon's points are understandable, some important notions and questions were not included in this chapter of his textbook and several of his arguments appear to be vague. First, the semantic criterion for polysemy is insufficient and flawed because the definition "relatedness in meaning" is subjective: for example, the meanings of the word "con" ("a cheat" and "a negative quality") arguably have a mutual semantic notion of "negative", but it could be debated that it is too imprecise to consider "con" a case of polysemy. Second, Lyons' definition of polysemy is made more vague by the lack of a criterion called regularity: a condition, which is defined by how regular a specific transfer of meaning occurs in a language. Unlike the criteria presented in the book, regularity is objective and clear. Some other criteria (for example, the ones that are used in defining absolute homonymy) appear to be solid and there are no problems with the logical structure of the chapter, but these flaws make it too vague for a textbook.
John Lyons' textbook is well-known across the linguistic community, but that does not mean it has no flaws. Several significant criteria and arguments are not present in the chapter about homonymy, which sometimes renders it imprecise. However, it is well written and structured and that makes it understandable.




Works Cited

Lyons, John. Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction. Cambridge University Press, 1995.
