It is not always necessary to tell the truth
In the modern world we always have to deal with the problem of truth. Everybody has his or her own opinion about this problem. And there is always a question if we should always tell the truth. I personally think that there are some situations in our life when we have to lie. 
First of all, a lot of people think that our politicians lie to us all the time. But think about it. Politicians have to care about nation well-being. And sometimes for this reason they have to hide the truth from us. 
For example, politicians cannot speak about secret weapons or organizations. And if they are asked about existence of these weapons or organizations, they have to deny existence. Also, in the situation of economic problem government has to hide the truth about this problem for saving nation economy and preventing panic.
If we talk about people in general, we easily can imagine situation when we do not want to tell the truth to our friend or relative. In the situation when we do not want to hurt the person's feelings or we know, that person will not be able to deal with news. I have an example from my life. There was a friend of my family. His wife died after they had been living together for 30 years. He did not know about that because he was in the different city. And nobody wanted to tell him news. He was ill and it was obvious that soon he will join his wife. So people knew he will not be able to deal with this news. After two weeks he died too.
What is more is that sometimes we lie to save our money. For example, if I travel in Asia I always take an empty purse with me to show it for all these people, who want me to buy something or just give them some money.
Moreover we all know that parents lie to their children. It is necessary because children are not ready for some truths of our lifes. They should not know about sex or things like this until they grow up enough.
And finally, there are situations in medicine when doctors have to hide the truth. Imagine that person is really ill but doctors do not tell him or her about diagnosis. It is made to give a person chance to survive. If person knows that his/her illness is incurable, he has a lower chance of surviving than a person who does not have such information about disease.
To conclude I want to pay your attention once again to the problem of truth. We cannot say that everybody has to always tell truth as there are situations when we have to lie.
