Review
John Lyons. Componential analysis. In  Linguistic Semantics. pp. 107-114.
Componential analysis (CA), or lexical decomposition is a semantic framework of analysing words and their semantic features, which was popular in the 50-60's. However, since then it has lost its popularity and nowadays is not used in its pure form. The purpose of this critique is to review CA in linguistics on the basis of Lyons' description in his book Linguistic Semantics. 
According to the framework, words can be decomposed into semantic features so-called sense-components, which are formulated in English and are postulated to be cross-linguistically universal. In the chapter Componential analysis, John Lyons provides the classical examples of lexical decomposition. For example, the features for the word "man" are: HUMAN & MALE & ADULT.  Binarity of sense-components allows using negation to put two words in the relation of an opposition. For instance, the semantic feature HUMAN is opposed to the feature NON-HUMAN, or ~HUMAN. Thus, the word "woman" is presented by using the negation operator for the feature MALE: HUMAN & ~MALE & ADULT.
Depending on the purpose of use, componential analysis has both theoretical drawbacks and practical benefits, which will be highlighted below.
There are several theoretical flaws in this framework, which might explain the loss of its popularity. Firstly, the universality of sense-components is seriously doubted. For instance, the aforementioned feature ADULT can hardly be called universal due to the cultural distinctions in different languages. For example, a Russian person is treated as an adult if he reaches the legal age of 18 or even 21, while according to Jewish tradition, adulthood is reached earlier than the legal age - at the age of 13.
Secondly, some of sense-components which Lyons demonstrates are too specific (EQUINE, OVINE, BOVINE) and hereupon are incomprehensible for the people who are not familiar with their meaning. 
In addition, only certain categories of words are easily decomposed, whereas it seems impossible to describe abstract nouns like "love" and "friendship" by using binary features.
Despite the above criticisms, the method of componential analysis could demonstrate its value in practice if it was used in the modified form. First of all, it finds an application in the area of automatic data processing: decomposition of words into semantic features makes it easier for the computer to understand words and their connection with the other elements of the sentence. CA might also help to find distinctions between synonyms. For example, the adjectives "small" and "little" differ in the presence of the additional semantic features PLEASANT and NICE in the latter.
To sum up, in spite of some theoretical disadvantages, componential analysis would be widely adopted in practical usages if it was partly revived and improved.

