Alternative energy sources
The world's economy depends on fossil resources too much. If people are not going to cut down consumption rates and/or introduce alternative ways to produce energy  than resources most commonly used on our planet - oil, natural gas and coal are going to be depleted in the next 50-70 years. Sounds like a serious problem, doesn't it?
How to deal with it? We can all take our small, but vital part in this cause by conserving energy and supporting political organizations capable of lobbying alternative energy projects and increasing taxes for activities contributing to consumption of depletable resources(cars using gasoline or diesel fuel for example). The usage of the sun, wind, hydroelectric and geothermal renewable energy sources should be encouraged. But the most important thing is to start with yourself and watch how much energy each and every of us consumes! By personal example and enthusiasm we can bring the importance of this idea to the masses.
However, there are a number of problems concerning conversion from fossils to renewable energy. Alternative energy sources are not as energy-efficient and depend on the place of production too much (you can use coal-operated electrical station almost anywhere, but you can't use any of the alternative sources this way). And if those sources are not as efficient, there is no practical reason to introduce them for energy producers in developing countries, as their primary goal right now is to catch up with the developed ones. 
In my opinion, . UN should require certain conversions and consumption cuts from all countries every year. This way scientists will have enough time to increase efficiency of alternative energy sources and/or invent new ones before depletion. For example, there are certain technology being developed right now, which allows to efficiently (with acceptable energy loss)transfer energy via wireless connection . Why is it so great? Imagine, those solar batteries are going to be stationed on the orbit of our planet (this way they will be able to get incredible amounts of energy from the sun as there will be no atmospheric interference) and transfer received energy to the surface!
And there are plenty of other promising technologies being developed today.
By using this method of slow, but stable conversion people of the future generations will be able to continue sustainable development without any catastrophes caused by the depletion of fossil resources. As mentioned before, the problems associated with  introduction of alternative energy resources are rather difficult, but solvable nevertheless and this fact gives us reason to be optimistic about future energy consumption.

