Through all of our life, we are following the system, which was made in order to keep things under control and create the same conditions for every single person. It is believed that following rules and being in framework will lead you to success, regardless of your abilities etc. On the other hand, our previous topic stated that standardized testing and education without any creativity usage leads to establishing the system of indoctrination of the young, which only prepares them for life of conformity.
From one point of view, framework is not as bad as it seems to be. We should keep in mind that we are following the rules since the begging of our life. Orders, school frameworks, some traditions – all these things were made in order to keep us organized and they are not meant to limit our creativity or permit us to express our ideas in any way. Following the rules and being in the framework are meant to help us to reach our goals by making more structured road to our success.
Being organized does not mean that you are not creative in any way. You still can get good grades applying some creativity to you work, no one permits you, because the main idea of standardized education is to offer a perfect system which will lead to gaining knowledge instead of just sitting and getting a diploma.
Timetables help you to organize yourself. Marks and grades are motivation to push your willing to study forward. Frameworks makes you feel more confident while working in the team. Tests are good trainers for you memory and provide the same conditions for everyone. Good example of “creative framework” are poets, who are following the rules and applying some creativity in order to make a good poetry.
On the other hand, if we think of it from different point of view, frameworks are destroying our creativity and ability to think in unusual way, so there is no any way to express your own ideas if they stand out. We can’t apply the same rules for every person when it comes to the question of education. With tests and curriculum system itself, we can’t reveal one’s impressive abilities and ideas.  There are many examples of people, who dropped out from framework and invented things, without which, we cannot imagine our life nowadays. Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg etc. They have dropped out of the system and made inventions, which have changed our world.
Even if we are saying that the knowledge is essential, we still need to keep in mind, that when we are applying for job, we have an interview based on our ability to think in creative and critical way, no one asks us whether we remember any formulas, rules etc. Big companies need people who can make ideas, which, from the first look, may seem insane or crazy, but after some time, they may become something stronger and will change our world for good, like invention of the social network etc.
Making a conclusion, I want to say, that, in my opinion, frameworks are not good enough nowadays (especially in Russia) to make people know how to think in creative way and follow the rules at the same time. If you want to be a common person and have a common salary as your friend, following the rules and being in framework will work for you, but if you want to achieve something bigger, change our world for a good reason, become a recognizable person, it’s better for you to drop out of the current framework system, until it’s not good enough to offer “creative rules” or something like that where will be creativity involved. Unfortunately, as I said before, frameworks cannot offer it now.
