It is 21st century just behind your window, and more then 7 seven billions people live on our planet. When you wake up early in the morning, you see your family. Well-dressed newscasters look at you from the screen. Colleagues discuss with you future promotion and sellers at the local market try to insist on buying best fish you've ever seen. Everyday you communicate with people and there is no way to avoid it. That is why communicating skill plays a great role in our lives. 
     But recently scientist found out that many people are afraid of public speaking. They shake with fear, their hands begin to sweat and hearts try to jump out from their chests. Why is it so? Just imagine yourself standing in front of a countless audience. Hundreds of eyes are staring at you. Atmosphere of silence and growing boredom. It is hard not to get afraid, isn't it? But there exists several advices which can help you to get out of such a situation proudly. Relax. Keep your mind clear. Or just concentrate on something interesting - wonderful red curtains, man's silly shoes - it doesn't matter on what. You need to deflect a little bit. Then start speaking slowly and clearly, without muttering and mumbling. Do you see people's faces interested in what are you saying? No? Then change your stile, add some enthusiasm, tell a joke or a funny moment from you life. Don't care about mistakes - it is not the world's end, if you make them. Remember that for many people are looking at you every second (like there is nothing interesting except you), so don't stand like a doll, make several steps in one side, then in another, rise you hands and make different gesture. It is even allowed to jump or to sham a rock star. Get people excited! They are still not? Ok, it is a wrong audience, just turn around and go back. Hah, it's just a joke. Don't be shy and experiment! Until people like your behavior, you are their king and God and everything is possible. And if they don't… Then you'll feel it.
      And the most important rule - there are no rules in speaking! 
