John Lyons. Componential analysis. In  Linguistic Semantics. Pp. 107-114. 
In the following chapter of Lyons' book named 'The Structural Approach' the author describes the method of componential analysis. This method rose from the rules based on binary criteria that were created by phonologists who belonged to the Prague School. 
 In semantics these principles are transformed into the description of the word as a set of semantic features.  For example, the word 'woman' consists of three components such as HUMAN, ~MALE and ADULT. The tilde in front of MALE means negation. The components taken from English are considered to be universal. Also, special variables are used to describe the predicates.
Although it seems to be a convenient way of presenting the lexical meaning of words, further we will see that it has theoretical flaws. To begin with, there is no explanation why we should use English for defining semantic features. If so, any language should be suitable for this task but in fact, we face problems with the translation of the features that tend to be universal. Let us take the semantic feature FELINE. If we try to translate it into Russian, we will not be thrown into a dilemma because there are two Russian equivalents ('koshka' and 'kot') which differ in gender. Also, there are words that express the concept of a certain culture. There should not be any doubt that it is impossible to single out any semantic components of Japanese word 'mono no aware' which roughly means 'an empathy towards things' or 'a sensitivity to ephemera'. More than that, even in English we have got words that cannot be divided into semantic features. For example, in the sentence 'Her home was a prison' the word 'prison' cannot be decomposed. This problem occurs because the componential analysis usually describes the direct meaning. The word 'prison' is used here in its metaphorical meaning. Another point is that there is no semantic feature that matches with 'goodness' in a sentence like 'She is a good sister'. We do not know what component is described with the adjective 'good'.
Still, there are some areas where people could use the method of componential analysis. In computer linguistics, there should be a mechanism of explaining the meanings of words to machines. Enumeration of the semantic features can help to solve the problem. Also, componential analysis can be applied in making thesauruses and machine translating systems.
To sum up, despite a number of theoretical flaws, the method of componential analysis still has its practical application as it can be widely used in applied linguistics.
