Immigration in Russia: pros and cons.
It would be absolutely unwise to deny that degree of immigrants coming to Russia is increasing every year. This trend is very  and very difficult to evaluate because of many confusing consequences of this process.  Nevertheless, I would like to point out some advantages and disadvantages of this process. Firstly, there are many national conflicts on the grounds of  inappropriate behavior of some immigrants. Of course, there are bad people in every nation, in every country, and it is not right to judge the whole nation with one particular person misbehavior, but it is a sad tendency that male immigrants from  Caucasus consider Russian young girls asobjects of mockery and disrespectful attitude. There are too many cases when they whistle follow the girls and shout different obscenities. This misbehavior is resulted in our bad attitude to Caucasians. We now admit that we have some prejudices about them and this is bad. How  it is  connected to immigration? In my opinion, it is connected directly. Immigrants are not coming to Russia because of their happy life in their homeland, so there are often not the best members of their country  and if they weren't so many of them, we wouldn't pay so much attention on their behavior because it would be less of it. Secondly, itis still a crisis and immigrants are replacing native workers in the workplaces. And now I would like to distinguishimmigrants into two groups: the first group is consisted of immigrants from the countries of the former USSR. They tend to take  such positions which we are not very willing to take ourselves: yardmen, cleaners, builders, fruit and vegetable sellers. So they are not very dangerous for native workers in that case but it is still abnormally. As long as we have only immigrants in these roles and they are spreading and spreading everywhere, we risk not to mention when their number will exceed the number of native citizens. And while it now sounds ridiculous, we may collide in situation when they would try to make their own rules, laws, government, so it would result into  war or revolution. What about asecond group, they are professionals who are invited to the country for some big positions. There are now so many cases of European or American businessmen running our companies, coaches who training our sport teams, including the Olympic teams, and sportsmen too, and even politicians. And they are not because of we don't have our good specialists but because of our strange point of view,  that allwestern arebetter than Russian. Meanwhile, our sportsmen, businessmen, scientists, inventors are runningabroad because they have in there better  conditional to work . It is weird, isn't it? It is not right to stop inviting foreign specialists, but itis a need to reduce their amountat least in order not to be under their influence. It is really important to reduce the immigration in order to save our national culture and values. At the end, I want to say that  is not as bad as I have written before about this situation. Immigration is still a possibility to share experiences and abilities with people from all over the world, but nowadays its scale is more frighten us than produce benefits .
