Lera Broditsky is a professor of cognitive science who made the following experiment.  Three different pictures are shown to speakers of two different languages: English and Indonesian. First picture shows a person who is going to kick the ball. The second one demonstrates the same person has already kicked it. And at the third one we can see another person who is about to kick the ball. The participants of the experiment have to say what two pictures they find similar. I have a question:  is it really possible to reveal the worldview of speakers in a way of analyzing the choice that they do.
From my point of view, to reveal the full worldview of English speakers and Indonesian speakers, just analyzing their choice of pics is a quite complicated aim. We can just guess what the worldview each of them has and reveal a small part of it.
To start with English speakers, the research shows that they find similar those two pictures which show two different people who are going to do the same action with the same object. In their opinion they are the most similar of three shown pictures.  I have some ideas why they made this choice and what their worldview is. From my point of view, these people are materialists, they might believe that you can know the world touching all the subjects and exploring their structure. That is why these participants of the experiment pay more attention to the action at the pictures instead of a person who is shown. Materialists are usually reserved, not very emotional, provident and efficient. They believe that nobody rules the world, it exists independently. These people are hard-workers who know their aim and will go hard to achieve it. Also materialists do not approve of religion being a lifestyle. 
Now we will speak about the choice of Indonesian speakers. The experiment shows that they choose two pictures, which show the same person doing different actions. The result of the research reveals that Indonesians pay more attention to a person and personality. In my view, these speakers are idealists, who have a great interest in the inner world of men, they can sympathize with people.  Religion is an important part of their life, they believe that God rule the world. Such people do not worry about details of the problem they take it easy and carry on. A conflict for them is a waste of time, they can easily perceive any ideas and try to understand all.
All in all, I find it difficult  to make a conclusion about somebody’s worldview just according to his/her choice of picture, but we can see that language, culture  and the country where person lives have a great influence on his worldview.