It is true that there is a tendency to the increase of showmen' and sportsmen' salaries nowadays. What is more this growth rate is extremely high. In my essay I am going to discuss the question whether entertainers are paid too much or not. To come to a definite conclusion pros and cons will be considered and examples will be given.
To begin with, undoubtedly, it is a consumer who pays off the salaries to entertainers and athletes. The thing is that their wages are included in a price of sport events' tickets or cost of TV-channels usage. For instance, the price of a football match ticket, which is bought  by customer, consists of advertising costs, field rent, facilities available to fans during the game and of course of football coaches'  and football team members' salaries. In most cases customers are not aware of that they pay for it. 
Moreover, it seems to me immoral that level of popularity of a star determines the level of his/her salary and those entertainers who behave themselves rudely and indecently become favorites and earn more than their gentlemanlike colleges. Of course, such showmen are not the only people to be blamed. Only if the audience is interested in non-moral TV-shows, entertainers will continue to create TV and radio programs of this kind. A good example is reality shows which exist in every country and have become very popular with people. In Russia, where I live, many people are keen on watching the reality show "House-2", which I consider to be a silly program. The spectators are shown the private life of several couples, including quarrels, disputes and even intimate moments. 
Furthermore, money spent on exaggerated salaries of pop-stars and sportsmen could be distributed on more useful social purposes, like medicine and charity.  The wages got by doctors and teachers in Russia cannot be compared to those received by entertainers. I reckon, that situation is the same in many countries. I consider it to be not fair. It seems that professions of lectures and medical workers are less important for our society than profession of a show-man. People lose incentives to serve public in social spheres because they are paid too little compared to pop-stars.
On the other hand, why should anyone be anxious about other people's salary? Everyone is entitled to earn as much as he/she can. There should not be any limitations for a person how much money to get doing what he likes via his profession. But still from the social point of view, high salaries of entertainers and athletes are good only to them but not to society as a whole, this point was discussed above. 
To sum up, for the reasons given I am against unreasonably high salaries of sportsmen and pop-stars. It spoils our society. I hope I have managed to prove it in my essay.
