The harmful effects of tourism. The Galapagos Islands.
Have you ever seen the Marine iguana or the giant Galapagos tortoise? They are amazing creatures and you may never see them because they are endangered now and we can only blame ourselves for that. Our passion for tourism is the main threat for them and for all the biodiversity of the Galapagos Islands.
To begin with, our vehicles and what we bring on them carry danger. Mosquitoes that are brought to the Galapagos Islands with ships and planes are spread all over the island, and they are killing the animals which are not prepared to resist non-native species.
Moreover, our carelessness is killing them. Humans are curious and selfish, so we love to break taboos and go to the beaches where tortoises and birds lay their eggs. Please respond honestly, don't you want to see their eggs closely or touch the animal? We all want to experience something new, but because of this hundreds of animals' babies have died unborn. The research of the "National Geographic" made in 2009 has shown that the number of the Marine iguana has declined by 20% since 2007, the number of the Giant Tortoise - by 45%.
Fortunately, we can solve some problems ourselves. Make a list of rules on "how to behave on holiday" and follow it not only on the Galapagos Islands but everywhere else. It is so simple but also so hard, hard to make people understand that the life of innocent creatures depends on them. Just try not to leave litter behind you and act with the babies of animals like you want others to act with your own babies. 
But it is not the only way we can help. We also should persuade our government to handle the surfaces of aircrafts and ships with special insecticides in order to kill dangerous mosquitoes. Of course, it may be hard to achieve this target, because it is a very expensive deal, so that we need your help. Please, sign the petition about this problem on the official site of the Galapagos Islands and when we have enough signs we will send this petition to the government.
Moreover, it must be forbidden to take animals with you on plane. It will be perfect, if all non-native species leave the Galapagos Islands.
The rules are simple, the plans are feasible, but it depends on me and you and this may be a problem. We should care about what is happening to our nature and only together we can help to prevent the biodiversity from dying.


