A book review
The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy by Douglas Adams
When I first started reading The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy, I was immediately attracted by its catching, humorous plot. The book is a brilliant novel, which was created by the British author and playwright Douglas Adams. Written both in the comedy and science fiction genres, it is the lightweight and gripping writing. 
The plot of the book is quirky and ironic, bur still coherent. The story begins with an ordinary Thursday morning when Arthur, the central character, finds out that his house is about to be demolished due to local council’s plans to build a bypass. To prevent this from happening, he lies in front of the bulldozers. At this particular time Arthur’s best friend Ford Prefect announces him that he is an alien and that Earth will be demolished in the nearest time in order to build a hyperspace bypass. Together they hitch a lift on the hostile Vogon’s demolition ship and from here on their adventures begin. Douglas Adams’ imaginary world is astonishing: further plot tells why Earth is not a planet but the most powerful computer and reveals the existence of a ship powered by the Infinite Improbability Drive. British humor struck me as noteworthy while I was reading the book. To my mind, the style is admirable as well. The use of author’s special idiomatic vocabulary enables to depict the story vividly and to create believable characters. Besides, the author reveals and ridicules the flaws of modern society. Thus, the Vogons, an alien race, are described as bureaucratic and callous, which reminds us of human flaws.
All in all, The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy has always gained mostly positive critic assessments. Russel T Davis, Doctor Who series producer, has written a foreword to the book: he tells about how popular during his childhood the book was. Also, it has become a part of a pop culture: number 42 (according to the book, the ultimate answer to everything) is mentioned in films, TV series or might be heard from other people. As I agree with these high opinions, I would definitely recommend this remarkable book to everyone who enjoys reading science fiction.
