Every natural language has a great impact on people’s consciousness, but, 

unfortunately, not all are aware of this fact. There are a lot of researches and 

experiments that show this interesting and significant language feature. One of 

these experiments was carried out by American psycholinguist Lera Boroditsky.

I will not describe the content of the experiment, as it is written in the task, I will 

just try to analyze the results and make some conclusions.

   It is obvious, that chosen pairs of pictures must be combined in some respects. 

These respects can help us to understand reasons of the choices. The first two 

pictures have the same man in them, but different moments of the action. At the 

same time, in the first and third pictures different men are represented, but they 

show the same phase of the action. Why did most of the Indonesian participants 

choose the first pair, and most of the British choose the second? To answer this 

question we must take a look at both languages, especially we should pay attention 

to their grammar systems. 

   Let’s consider Indonesian at first. It is one of the most widely spoken languages 

in the world, which belongs to Austronesian family. There is one interesting and 

extraordinary thing about verbs of this language. Indonesian verbs never change to 

express time, as in English. When it is important to specify time, Indonesian adds 

additional words that clarify the time, but this is optional. So, most Indonesians do 

not bother to mark time when they speak.

   There is a complete different situation about English. Possibly, it is the best-

known language in the world spoken nearly in every country. English has a 

complicated and well-developed mechanism for expressing time. One can’t use a 

verb without marking its time progression. 

   Thus, the concept of time in Indonesian is a dispensable thing that is expressed 

by lexical means. Speakers of Indonesian do not care a lot about it when speaking.

On the contrary, in English, time is a grammatical category that has to be 

presented in every statement contains a verb. English speakers pay attention to a 

phase of the action. All of this explains us the choices of the participants. 

Indonesians chose the first two pictures, basing on the fact that there was the same 

man in both of them. For English participants the same period of time, represented 

in the first and third pictures, happened to be more significant. Knowing to what 

degree time is submitted in English and Indonesian their choices seem sufficiently 

logical.
