One of the most important sides of human life is creating things. It's one of peculiarities that makes people different from animals. However, there are lots of arguments about the process of creating something, being creative in general and especially what creativity is.
As for the question about the nature of creativity, most people break into two groups. One of the frequent opinions is that creativity is an inborn feature and if a person was born without it he or she can't help about it. The other popular opinion is that everybody has rudiments of creativity in oneself and one just has to develop it. In brief, one side considers creative people the chosen ones and another thinks that everybody is creative but many people just don't know it.
As for me, I belong to the second group. I guess each person has some kind of creativity that can be developed into something bigger. Not only can it be developed but also deadened. Sometimes a person can consciously (or not) damp down his ability to create. For example, many people work in companies under the directions of bosses that don't encourage their employees to think outside the box, so they are forced to work unimaginatively and not let their creative ideas be realized. Sometimes, however, disappearance of the muse can happen with no visible reason. As far as I remember, I was full of inspiration, maybe, five years ago. I used to invent fantasy worlds and to write stories about them. But then it somehow disappeared. Maybe, I have just grown out of it, maybe, I ran out of inspiration, but I haven't written anything like that for a couple of years already and I find it rather sad.
Another quite common opinion about creative people is that a talented  person is talented in everything. I, however, don't think so. Certainly, there are some extraordinary people that are successful in various kinds of work, like Leonardo da Vinci, but they are very, very few. Usually, a creative person is really creative in one particular area but may be quite poor in another, even closely related. For example, a person can write wonderful poems but be unable to express one's ideas properly in a school essay, or vice versa. Briefly, we shouldn't demand too much of creative people.
In general, my opinion is that creativity is not a sign of the chosen ones but an ability hidden in everyone that needs to be found and developed. If somebody claims that  he is not creative, it's not true. It just means that he hasn't found his own special kind of talent yet. So if one wants to create and be creative one has to investigate oneself and find out that kind of work that one can do hands down  and enjoy it.

