Fry's English Delight: He Said, She said
Listening to whatever Stephen Fry has to say is always a pleasure, mainly because this man is an expert in presenting things no one would read about in scientific language to ordinary people. Stephen Fry is someone who can easily make a lot of themes you found boring, because they were too difficult to understand, sound unexpectedly enthralling. I cannot help but consider him some kind of a connection between science and entertainment, and this is why his works, whether they are books or programs, are always highly valuable and extremely interesting.
This is no surprise that the topic of gender politics and language stereotypes was raised by Fry, who, by all means, is widely-known as a decent fighter for the equality of all people. I guess, it is really hard to say something new about this question in such a small amount of time, but Stephen Fry and his guests did a great job highlighting and explaining (sometimes in a humorous manner) all the major points. For people like me, who live in the society of ever-winning patriarchy, it is really hard to imagine the mother tongue reflecting the changes in social behavior and standards, and some people, for example, from Great Britain or the USA just never stopped to think of that. So, the information is not only interesting and entertaining, but also useful in a way of understanding and seeing the whole model of social changes affecting the language. 
As it seems to me, the topic of gender politics was explained more clearly, than the topic of gender differences in discourse. Maybe, this can be understood through the amount of questions we can apply to each subject. When we talk about gender politics, the main question is "Do we really need to change the way we speak to satisfy all?" When we talk about how men and women are different in the way they communicate, there are at least a dozen more questions; some of them still seen as controversial. Nevertheless, it was the most informative and interesting discussion. 
And it makes me wonder: will we ever be able to see such changes in Russian language, or is it just not flexible enough for that? Well, I guess, with our today politics, it is only for the future generations to know…
