John Lyons. Homonymy and Polysemy: Lexical and Grammatical Ambiguity. Linguistic Semantics. Pp. 54-60.

In the following chapter of Lyons' book named 'Words as Meaningful Units' the author considers such phenomena as homonymy and polysemy. 

First, Lyons gives the traditional definition of homonyms as 'different words with the same form'. He supplements it with a few corrections adding that 'words' should be replaced with 'lexemes' and introducing his own criteria for defining absolute homonymy. These are: the divergence in meaning, the identity of the forms and the grammatical equivalence of these forms. He also distinguishes different kinds of partial homonymy. For example, if the words share merely one form, they can be called partial homonyms. 
Then, the author defines polysemy as a set of meanings of one lexeme. He adds that there are cases in which it is hard to understand what particular phenomenon we are faced with. Also, he reveals the criteria for defining polysemic words such as common etymology and relatedness of meaning. In the following paragraphs Lyons supports his idea that native speakers can mostly trust their intuition and make reliable assumptions based on it, with certain examples.
 Although it is undeniable that Lyons' article has contributed to semantics, it has got several flaws. To begin with, it is not clear what its particular audience is. The style is purely academic but there is not enough supporting information and statistics data, he only gives a few illustrations (e.g. 'sole' as a kind of fish and 'sole' for a bottom of a shoe' for absolute homonymy) for each case. Moreover, he does not provide an objective look into the problem: the author mostly stresses the grammatical criteria. For instance, Lyons claims that in sentence 'They found hospitals and charitable institutions' grammatical ambiguity can be better eliminated by grammatical means. However, we can insert 'in 1928' and easily solve the problem by lexical means. So, as Lyons is presenting his point of view in contrast with the traditional, he omits such examples. The author's last slip is connected to the arguable cases where we do not understand whether it is a single word or a number of  lexemes. The fact is that Lyons does not give any explanation how we should behave in such cases, what decision would be the most objective and so, the best.
To sum up, although the article gives a detailed presentation of both phenomena, there is a significant field of work that has to be done, as it is impossible to describe all the cases on a few pages. 


