Sports, diets, fitness
	Sport is something that should be the part of every man's life. I can't find any reasons against sport - you become healthy, stronger, live longer and look nicer and younger. Sport should come to your life on a regular basis, for example like fitness training or any sport that you play regularly. Only doing sport regularly you can keep yourself in good shape and avoid illnesses and fatness.
	Some people refer to sport as a way to lose weight. And they think if your weight is ok then you don't need any sport in your life. So sport is not something that helps you stay healthy but something that makes you lose weight. That way life becomes a sinusoid - man becomes fat, joins a sport training, becomes fit, stops training and start gaining weight again. That's why training should be regular - body has to constantly be fighting with fat to be slim.
	Meanwhile, different  sports provide different effects on body. Obviously, golf is an interesting sport but its value for body is doubtful. Group sports like basketball, football, tennis, water polo develop whole body, though some body parts develop even more (lungs and hands for water polo players, legs football and tennis players etc.). These are all games that allow a man to develop his body while enjoining the game process, so maybe there was no particular aim to develop muscles but it comes in addition to fun.
	Others practice fitness center attendance as a way to improve their body. Weight lifting, treadmill, exercise bicycle are some examples of what you can find in fitness center. Bad side of fitness center is that you spend most of time in the conditioned place and not on fresh air and you probably don't get as much fun as if you were while playing any active game. Also it should be mentioned that heave weight power lifting may even injure your health (particularly spine) if practiced without a coach. Professional sports are even more damaging to health: many sportsmen end their career due to numerous injuries they got during exercising (muscle pulls, fractures etc.).
	So if a person would like to get rid of fat and doesn't want to go to fitness center, the only way to decrease fat is to go on diet. I personally think that the only working diet is: "If you don't want to get fat - eat less!", while others propose the idea of special combination of (mostly) vegetables that would make you eat less while your mind would feel as if you were well-fed. The main problem lies on self-control that you must hold over yourself to limit your ratio. Most people became fat just because they can't control their food consumption and now we want them to even significantly reduce volumes of such consumption. That's why many diets work no more than a couple of days.
	So, if a person wants to be fit, he/she should spend some time regularly on sports, and it's more enjoyable to play an active game rather than stay in fitness center riding virtual roads on exercise bicycle. Although, fitness centers suit more to those who like to socialize and find new friends, while if you want to play football for example you need to find another 21 men willing to play it too at the same time. Either of these way is way more better than a diet when your body doesn't improve at all and your muscles stay as weak as they were while you were fat.



