The USA is one of the most visited countries in the world. All its' 50 states are different, each one with its' very own history, climate, sightseeings etc. My favorite state is California, the home of hippies and beat culture, liberty and freedom. My first journey took place in 2004 and it's truly the experience I'll never forget.
The plane arrived at the San Francisco International Airport early in the morning, when all the people were drowsy and wanting a cup coffee. A nice lady handed my luggage out and wished good luck. Californians are famous for their friendliness and hospitality, I heard. This woman seemed a good example of this, and that appeared great to me. Her smile made my mood go up, so I entered the route with nice feelings. I was on a busy road with thousands of taxies and taxi-drivers. Everything all looked extremely busy. All the people were in colorful clothes, some of them wearing hats or caps. I liked it. Here, in my country, people don't have a habit of wearing something bright, friendly speaking, I've always supposed that foreigners might think we don't produce any colorful fabric. While I was thinking this over, a nice fat man walked up and offered a taxi. I agreed and we both set out to the car. 
Then was the hotel. Nothing notable there, a typical Californian place, if you know what I mean, of course. Strangely, but I didn't want to sleep, so I went sightseeing. I've already had a list of places to visit, which included the famous ones, like the Golden Gate Bridge or the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, and the less known, as the bookshop 'City Light', for example, the favorite place of beat-poets. My first destination was a café, a certain one, actually, the one named Hard Rock Café. I have a tradition of visiting it anywhere I am, I mean, any trip can't be a success if I hadn't eaten a beefsteak in that place. They're extremely tasty in there. I've eaten the best one in Amsterdam so far.
After a meal in the café mentioned before, I headed to the metro. I decided not to visit anything special today, just to spend it wondering around, talking to the people, gazing at buildings, so I decided to reach a random station. As far as I know, Frisco is divided into areas according to the well-being of people. The area I was in turned out to be a nice one near the center of the town. I turned my camera on and went straight. Simply straight, no destination. There was a park not far away, which I thought was very beautiful. The rest of the day consisted of everything and nothing, little events with no meaning when separated, but in summary they were really great. The rest of my trip was like this, and I liked it very much. So much that I have been to SF 5 times and I'm actually planning a trip this year. It seems to me that I'll move there someday. 
