Critique.
J. Lyons, Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction, chapter 4.2 "Componential analysis".
Componential analysis, or lexical decomposition is a formal way of describing the words which implies the explanation of the sense of a lexeme by introducing it as the combination of some factors. John Lyons in his book "Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction" declares this method of word analysis to be historically important and widely accepted by linguists. In the chapter "Componential analysis" he discusses theoretical and practical issues of its use. 
Lyons begins by showing how to extract common and diverse sense-components from the words subject to analysis. He explains that the sense of the word  'man' can be represented as the combination of factors HUMAN, MALE and ADULT. Similarly he performs componential analysis of 'woman', 'boy' and 'girl' and  mentions some sense-components which are usually used to describe domestic animals e.g. CANINE, BOVINE, FELINE etc. After specifying the kinds of notation and formal apparatus he borrows formal elements and terminology from elementary set-theory to make clear the notion of compositional nature of lexical meaning. This approach allows to analyse the words like 'father' which involves two-term relation by introducing variables. 'Father' therefore will be a composition of (x,y)PARENT and (x)MALE. He continues with the methods to reflect the syntactic structure of the propositional content of sentences. Lyons finishes the chapter  with empirical and theoretical disadvantages of such analysis. In the final part he claims that componentional analysis is a good base for developing more perfect approaches. 
Componential analysis is considered by Lyons to be a useful tool for describing semantics of words. However this approach has some theoretical disadvantages. 
First, it does not allow to describe methaporical use of words. If one will try to apply componential analysis to a phrase 'you are not my daughter anymore!' the difficulty will become apparent. 'Daughter' is a composition of the following sense-components: HUMAN, ~MALE(x), PARENT(y,x). The negation of  'daughter' implies negation of one of the components, but none of them is negated indeed in this utterance. It does not mean that the addressee of the phrase stops being either human or female or that he or she does not have a parent anymore.Thus such types of sentences can not be explained by componential analysis.
Second, lexical decomposition is not the most useful method of describing the meaning of a word to a person. It presupposes that the one who wants to understand what a word means has good logical skills to be able to extract semantics from distinct sense-components. Also the one who wants to explain a word needs to know the full list of all possible sense-components, otherwise the task acquires additional difficulty of choosing the most suitable components among the synonyms.
Despite these shortcomings componential analysis can be very useful for specific areas of science e.g. computer linguistics. It can be used in corpora in semantic markup and in computer search. If one then needs to find which words share some common feature e.g. which animals aresimilar to cat, he or she can choose FELINE sense-component and search through the massive of words which contain this characteristic.
To sum up, although the method of lexical decomposition has theoretical disadvantages it can be a useful tool to base on in computer linguistics. 
