	
Book review Nicholas Sparks «The Notebook»
I have chosen to review one of the best modern novels, “The Notebook” by Nicholas Sparks. This book is popular among various ages and genders. Nicholas wrote it in just 6 months in 1996, later it was adapted into a movie that had the same name and appeared in 2004. As I found in Wikipedia this book was one of New York’s best sellers for two years in 1996 and 1997 and then in September 2004.This information proves the fact that ”the movie gave the book a second life”.
After reading this book I was puzzled whether is it a real story and if it is who inspired Sparks ?A very interesting fact is that this book tells the story of Nicholas wife’s grandparents, who had been married for more than 60 years. . Author’s wife always praised them as the best example of pure love. As for me this story is special because no matter what happened in the lives of main characters: war, illness, they doesn’t give up, they fought for their happiness. It is not surprising that the story of long and beautiful love inspired Nicholas to write his novel. In particular, the book has very strong narrative part, given by a master plot. The novel comprises ten chapters and there are two main characters:
Allison Nelson 
A girl from a privileged family. She is very sympathetic and attractive. She falls in love with Noah who is from a family of ordinary workers. Allie spends a wonderful summer with him, but she is forced by her parents to break up with Noah, because of his social class. Later in life, she meets Lon and becomes engaged to him, but something is troubling her, and she decides to return to Noah, not to make a mistake. 
Noah Calhoun 
Noah is the narrator of his own life and the main story of the book. He is a very handsome and kind person, he fell in love with Allie fourteen years before the beginning of the novel. He fought in the II World War to defended his homeland, and he wrote the letters to his love throughout all this time. He never forgot Allie and was very happy, when one day she came to visit his new house.
The book begins with introduction of the main character, Noah Calhoun. He characterizes his life “as a blue chip stock: fairly stable, more ups than downs, and gradually trending upward with time.” Noah states that he’s just an ordinary man. He continues the narration describing the story of his life, which involves both romance and tragedy, paths and choices he had to make. He takes The Notebook, the book where are collected all the best moments of his life and goes to a nursing home, where is treated his beloved wife .Visiting her is a daily need for both of them. Everyday he takes her for a walk, sits her in a comfortable chair and begins reading stories from the Notebook in order to at least for a minute remind her of him. She doesn’t remember him because she has senile dementia with memory loss.
Their story sounds so: At first - this is a summer of mad love. She - 15, he was 17. Ellie is a girl from a wealthy family, and Noah - the son of a woodcutter. In the south of America is very important your origin. Then many years of separation.
It is believed that for real feelings barriers and obstacles, are like the wind to fire - only brighter flares. But only if you know that somebody loves and waits for you. None of the two lovers knew that thing. Noah writes 365 letters to Allie, but her mother Anne Hamilton does not deliver them to daughter. Three years later, the United States of America join the World War II and Noah with his best friend Fin enlist in the army. Allie works as an army nurse in hospital, where she an injured soldier, Lon Hammond. After the war, they meet again and Lon, who is wealthy and handsome, proposes to marry her. Meanwhile Noah buys and restores the old house. It becomes very popular and many people want to buy this house. When Allie accidentally sees the photo of Noah in a newspaper she needs to make a chose ,which is not so easy. Will Ally
stay with one of the richest lowers of the South America or will she chose Noah who really loves her? At this moment the readings stops, because Ally’s and Noah’s children come to hospital.
A union of Noah and Allis-is a union of two creative people and have another talent - love. How beautiful and smart guys were next to Ellie, how many women met Noah after breaking up with Ally! But nobody of them was as magical as Ally was, with none of them he felt the fullness of life.
I would like to express my view of the book from positions of critical and sympathetic readers. “. The main theme of this novel is love. However, a big part is dedicated to various conflicts. Some of them are social, such as the one between Noah and Allie’s parents, who don’t think he is good enough for their daughter. Other are rather character’s inner conflicts, for example, Lon decides to value his career over the love for a woman. The ultimate conflict is between the illness and two lovers. It’s a constant battle between life and death, in which every second spent with significant other matters.
The story of higher love in literature most of all the times ends tragic, for instance the story of Romeo and Juliet .The story of Noah and Ally is not an exception. Fate played over them in their old age "bad joke ",how says Noah himself not to recognize the person in front of you, in fact, is the parting forever. It is very difficult to cure this disease, but it can overcome a great sense of love, against the terrible diagnosis through to the native soul in order to be for some time together.
To sum up, this novel is not an "ideal love novel" but a novel about real love. We read about feelings of ordinary men and women, and this story could have happened with anyone. I think, it is very easy to answer the question why this book became an absolute bestseller in the USA. First, because such story can melt the heart of any reader. The book provokes a storm of emotions. Even if Spark’s language is simple and lacks exquisite style, the reader still empathizes with the heroes and gets involved in their moral dilemmas. 
The book is very touching, and I think many of us will cry after finishing it. It’s amazing how a personal love story can magically speak to all of us, playing on the same strings in every single heart. I think that everyone is capable of love like Allie’s and lawyer (I’d say Lon’s, if it’s him.), but only a true human can love deeply enough to awake every sacred melody of heart. This book teaches you to “follow your heart.” 
(pg. 139; These are Allie’s mother’s parting words to her.) 
People who don't like this book at first, usually return to it after they’ve experienced the joy and sorrow of love. It is hard to explain how author of "The Notebook" can look so deep into your soul, but I suggest you to read it in order to experience it yourself!
