Nowadays technologies have become an integral part of our lives. Technology development allows us to supplement and sometimes even to replace the cerebration by the work of modern devices and gadgets. Some people say that it leads us to degradation and the loss of many kinds of skills, meanwhile others actively use modern technology and find it useful and beneficial.
In my opinion, innovations in technology significantly affect the development of our abilities. Firstly, today many people use smartphones, which have various applications that are intended for making our lives easier. However, using them a person almost does not need to think. For instance, in such programs as calculator, calendar, a man should only press certain buttons and the result will be given in a few seconds without much efforts. In addition, today people often use online translators and dictionaries of different languages. They see no point in bearing in mind definitions, spelling of words or in thinking how to “build” a sentence, because they have close at hand modern applications for these purposes. The examples discussed above indicate that people do not develop their brains properly. 
In addition, people, being reliant on modern technology, do not acquire some basic life skills. For instance, although navigation system is invaluable for such professions as taxi, lorry drivers, many people lose the ability to read maps and to orient. They just set the desired address in a program and follow its instructions.
However, people say that technology development greatly facilitates human life, and has little effect on people’s ability. I agree with this opinion to some extent. For example, a washing machine a unique invention that made life easier for women. Despite the fact that today most people wash their clothes in it, they have not forgotten how to wash things by hand; they just try to simplify their life.
To conclude, modern technology affects our lives considerably. We should try to benefit from technological development and not forget to develop our brain abilities and various skills.
