I have read a book “Extremely Loud And Incredibly Close” by Jonathan Safran Foer. I decided to read this book because a lot of my friends advised it to me. They presented it like it is moving and thought-provoking. However, in my opinion, it wasn’t so gripping. I liked the beginning but I can’t say that the book was a really page-turner.
The story is about a nine-year old boy whose father died in terrorism attack on 11th September, 2001 in Twin Towers. The boy named Oskar Shell was impressed by such an accident. He couldn’t believe that his father died. One day Oskar found a key in the blue vase on his father’s table. He thought that this key is a message from his father Thomas Shell, it is an answer to the question why he died, what was the reason for his death. Oskar decided to find the answer, to say more exactly, the lock which is unlocked by his key. He found a note on the key “Black” and thought it could be a name of a person who knows something about reasons for his father’s death. So, he had been searching in New York for a long time, trying to have a talk with each person named Black. He has met a large number of people. Each Black told him his or her personal story but nobody knew Thomas Shell except for the last man he visited. But there was no something special in their relationship with Thomas Shell (just a customer and a merchant). Oskar’s key helped this person but Oskar himself was very upset because he didn’t manage to realize why his father died. But there was no reason. He died because of terrorism attack. At the end of the book Oskar became more patient about his tragedy, accepted it.
So, on my point of view, the plot is quite interesting but it is overrated. I can’t see in the book something special. Maybe it is a good promotion to prevent from terrorism and about how terrorism damages lives of innocent people, especially children. The book shows a lot of feelings of the key character but they don’t cause strong impressions on readers (at least on me). Maybe it is because the book is not well-written. It is hard going as there is too much extra information which is not related to the main topic. This leads to confusion and misunderstanding. Readers can easily lose their train of thoughts. So, it is just not my kind of thing.
“Extremely Loud And Incredibly Close” caused debates in society. Some people were impressed by the story and found it is moving and exciting while others were not. A lot of readers can’t understand how in reality a boy like the key character can exist: although he is only nine years old, he thinks and feels like a much elder person. And some people have a question how such a little boy could travel alone about New York for a long time. It looks really strange. So, as I see, the audience divided into 2 groups: those who appreciate the book and those who are not.
