I want to tell you about a small talk called “Looks aren't everything. Believe me, I'm a model”, which impressed me strongly.
Firstly, a beautiful woman came to the stage wearing a short dress and high heels. She introduced herself saying that her name was Cameron Russell and she had worked as a model for last ten years. Then she noticed that there was an uncomfortable tension in the audience and changed her outfit in just a few seconds right on the stage and marked that she was quiet privileged in changing what  people think of her in 10 seconds. By the way, Cameron was absolutely right about this point as the change was really noticeable. In other words, her previous outfit made it hard to take her seriously. She showed many of her photos and said that some of them were as awkward as this changing outfit thing on the stage. Also Cameron Russell showed a rather revealing picture with her and a man and said that, actually, at that moment she had never had a boyfriend in a real life and had felt really embarrassed and uncomfortable while taking this photo session. The model explained that how we look always have a huge impact on our lives and there is nearly nothing we can do to transform this in any way. Thus, she came on that stage to be honest about how it feels to be a model. 
Then Cameron narrated two stories about how her look helped her in her life. Firstly, she said that once she had gone to the store and she had forgotten her money and they had given her the dress for free. Secondly, Cameron said that when as a teenager once she had been driving with her friend who had been an awful driver and, thus, had run a red, they had got pulled over and all it had taken had been "Sorry, officer," and they had been on their way.    
To sum up, she said that being a model is not something that labels a person, a model is just a profession, photos of the models do not have anything in common with a real person under the image created by “hairstylists and makeup artists and photographers and stylists and all of their assistants and pre-production and post-production”. 
What she was trying to tell us about is quite simple and not new at all as children are always brought up with the idea that nobody should be judged by their appearance. However, this point is often understood in a different way: if a person is not pretty enough or has different imperfections, it does not mean that this person is not interesting to talk to, for instance. Cameron Russell told us about the other side of this principle, that even a person with the ideal appearance should not be labelled in any way. 
P.S. Oh, I’ve tried to add here more reporting speech in the past with changing times, but everything she says is permanent truth..
