	One of the most important issues of sociolinguistics is the language variation. The variety in phonetics, lexicon and some other features of language can be considered from two radically different points. From one of them the natural diversity of language variants spoken in different geographical areas is investigated, each of them is treated as normal and traditionally accepted one (at least in the concrete territory). The second point of concern is directly connected to the notion of the norm and to the way different people perceive it. Whether a person uses the variant treated as the right one by the society he or she belongs to; whether he or she considers it to be normal; whether it has already become a tendency for some social group of people; what can actually be treated as a norm in every certain case are the questions to give an answer to with the help of the real data.
	The aim of this course paper is to investigate the ambulatory stress in Russian verbs "звонит", "включит", "валит", "манит", "облегчит", "поселит", "углубит", "зафрендит". The customary norm implies the vowel of the ending to be stressed. However, a considerable number of people actually place the stress on the root vowel. The diversity is observed within the certain territory (Moscow in this case) to exclude the geographical factor. The work itself includes gathering the data about people's usage of different variants in their unconscious speech and about their own opinion towards what the right, normal variant actually can be. The next step lies in making the statistics out of the collected information. To find out the concrete tends, the groups of people of different age and level of education are examined separately. The significant results which hopefully would be achieved are the conclusions about the current norm, its diachronical changes (provided people always use the same variant), the social diversity of different variants of the stress (according to the people's level of education) and possibly some other inferences.
