1.Yesterday at 9 p.m. a man called to the police station and informed us about the car accident he had witnessed on junction 21 near Fleury on the way to Paris. As he told us the accident involved two cars with two passengers and a driver in one and a driver only in another. The witness also reported none of the drivers involved in the accident had any injuries but they all looked shocked. The man promised to look after them and warned us the cars had blocked the traffic. So I convinced him the assistance would be there within 10 minutes and ordered to stay with the drivers.
Moscow,
Russia
Dear Mary,
I'd love to thank you for your letter. I am very glad you are doing well. Sorry for not answering you at once. I have just started studying at the university so I simply didn't have time to write to you immediately.
In your last letter you asked me about Jack and his girlfriend Ann. Well, he is in tough times. I heard him talking to his friend Tom yesterday. He complained Ann had rejected his proposal. Tom suggested the reason of her refusal was Jack's long hair and beard and offered him to get rid of them. However, Jack didn't think it was worth the effort. But Tom insisted on his advice and offered him to try it anyway. I don't know what his final decision was, but I hope he'll solve his problem with Ann.
I hope you'll write me soon.
Today I had a spare evening and had nothing to do so I decided to watch 9 o'clock news. The main subject of the news was the recent airplane crash which took lives of Lokomotiv Yaroslavl hockey team. They reported that the last member of the team Alexander Galimov died today in the hospital. As for crash, the reasons of the accident are not clear yet. The other important subject was the explosion next to nuclear power plant in the south of France. The experts, however, consider it's not dangerous. Besides, there are reports about numerous riots in Syria during which more than 1400 people died. As for the sports news the most important event is the victory of Russian beach football team over Brazil. Our sportsmen defeated Brazilians with the score 12:8. These are the main news I heard today on TV.