I’d like to write about Fitzgerald’s novel ‘The Great Gatsby’. It is a story that brings us back to 20’s. This novel is permeated with gloss, bohemian life and jazz. It tells us about countless parties, hypocrisy and prosperity in their worst demonstrations. 

The main character, Nick Carraway, takes a job in New York and moves to a village in  West Egg. Opposite to his house, across the river, there is a country seat of certain Mr. Gatsby who is famous for his prosperity and extravagant parties. The main thing of this person is that nobody knows about Jay Gatsby, but he is famous at the same time. 

This is a story about Gatsby, not about Nick at all. Nick is just an intermediator between Gatsby and his sweetheart (Nick’s cousin) Daisy. Daisy lives with her husband and daughter, but she doesn’t care about them at all. Tom, Daisy’s husband, two-times Daisy with Myrtle Wilson who lives in an industrial region between West Egg and  New York.  Gatsby tries to retrieve Daisy and this is the main plot of this novel. Gatsby is killed by Myrtle’s husband because of Daisy’s and Tom’s manipulations. The very end of this story is the death of Gatsby (maybe it’s the most tragic part of the novel, apart from the accident and the death of Myrtle).

So, on the one hand it’s a story about Daisy’s hypocrisy, greed, meanless and, on the other hand, Gatsby’s pure unrequired love. This story has a fungible overextended plot with long introduction, sluggish suspense, quiet climax. But incompleteness of the novel gives a certain charm and a definite moral message for this story.

To tell you the truth, I’ve decided to read this novel just because of its popularity in these latter days. It was interesting for me to understand the cause of this overall admiration and boom. And I can say that I don’t like it.  This plot, undoubtedly, is very tragic, but it didn’t make an impression on me. I had no emotions. It is written stunningly, gracefully, aesthetically and in details, but it didn’t touch me at all. So I’m not a person who admires this novel and Mr.Gatsby (and Mr. Gatsby performed by DiCaprio). In my opinion, it’s a well-written and well-read novel, but it’s not my story. 
