The statement we are faced with is: "Technology is bound to cause revolutionary changes in this world". And most of people would consider this to be a fact which does not require any proof. After all technology used to not exist at all. But now people cannot even imagine going though one day without their phone, computer, television, transport. For example, not too long ago I went kayaking down a river in a region which is a bit rural. That trip did not require any type of technology. We boiled water and cooked food over the fire, rowed down the river using our own strength, played live music on a guitar. We had no cellphone signal, no Internet connection so cellphones and computers would not be able to serve its main purpose. But my dad still felt the need to take pictures along the way. It was not neccessary, served no vital purpose but my dad was used to taking some of the memories back home. And that is how much technology has incorporated itself into our lives, how much it changed everything around us. And it is not the end yet. Scientists keep thinking of new gadgets, new functions, new machines. And in the past years a lot of movies centered their plot around the concept of artifial intelligence. And maybe the world has not created the means of making it possible but that could easily change in the next year, decade, century. And no matter how much time passes it is still something that is waiting for us in the future along with other types of technology we had no idea could exist.
However, there is a chance that the biggest changes have been made. Computers and phones have been such impressive innovations that many elderly people still have not grasped the concept of using them. It was a big change for them, one they couldn't ignore but could not overcome either. Our parents, however, - the preceeding generation - do not find any of the most recent innovations life-changing. Touchscreens did not shock the world, neither did 3D television. Maybe the age of new technology has passed and no changes await us in the future.
But I do not belive that. It is true that compared to the big wave of new technologies that were computers the smaller waves of touchscreens and 3D TV are less impressive and less life-changing. But that is how technology works. First there are loud and big inventions of fundamentally new gadgets and then small little inventions follow it. And then the circle repeats itself. So there are changes awaiting us. We just cannot predict when we will encouner them or how to prepare for things that can change our view on life.
