Lyons, J. (1995). Componential analysis.Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction, 107-114.
Componential analysis is a way to formalize the sense relations which hold among lexemes. It is based on the methods of Prague School, which describe sounds by determining the absence and the presence of features. In the chapter Componential analysis of his book Linguistic Semantics John Lyons describes all the aspects of componential analysis, which is also called lexical decomposition. 
In the chapter the author identifies componential analysis as an instrument of presentingthe sense of the lexeme throughout its component parts. Lyons claims that one word can have basic underlying meanings that are established depending on the context. For example, the sense of the lexeme "man" can be presented by three factors "man=human&male&adult". 
Componential analysis has many theoretical flaws that restrain it from being universal, however it has practical usage for some computer-oriented tasks, such as search of semantic connotations in the corpora. 
Lexical decomposition can be supposed insufficient, because it cannot explain metaphors. For instance, the sense of the lexemes "cat" and "kitten" is presented by two factors: feline, adult/non-adult. However they have different metaphorical usages. The lexeme "kitten" has meaning of playfulness, but it is impossible to interpret this metaphor by means of lexical decomposition. Moreover, the theory cannot clarify semantic interaction. For example, in the sentence "She is a real woman", we do not know to which sense-component (woman=human&female&adult) the word "real" belongs. 
Lexical decomposition cannot simplify the meaning ofthe particular sentences. For instance, the lexeme "sister" can be decomposed into three sense-components "sister=human&female&relative". In such clause as "After that you are not my sister anymore", the phrase "not my sister" might belong to the sense-component "relative". In another sentence "She is a good sister", the adjective "good" may belong to the sense-component "human". However, a person can be a good human, but a bad sister at the same time. 
To summarizing that, the method of lexical decomposition should be improved despite of its considerable advantage (practical usage in computer linguistics and corpora). However, many theoretical flaws like no metaphorical explanations, no interaction between semantic features and others, should be corrected in order to make the theory of componential analysis more valid and sufficient.