John Lyons. Componential analysis. In  Linguistic Semantics. pp. 107-114	
One of the main goals of Linguistics has always been an attempt to formalize the language descriptions.
Componential analysis, described in John Lyons' book on Linguistic Semantics, is one of the methods of providing lexems with definitions by separately analyzing their component parts and. As the result each word is being described with a certain sequence of factors. A word "man" is represented in such a way: "man" = "human"& "male" & "adult".
Although this approach might be useful in some cases it should not be considered universal.
The main goal of such analysis is to be able to explain every word in the language, however, there are many things that cannot be described by using formal logic alone. For example, it completely fails to describe colors.
Moreover, the binary system of factors used in compositional analysis creates a very imprecise definition for many words. For instance, there is an "adult" factor which has two values: "adult" and "non-adult". Some words can be described perfectly with it: "boy"= "human"& "male" & "non-adult", but some cannot. Even a very similar word "girl", being described in the same way, turns out to be inaccurate as it is used for both a child and a young woman who should undoubtedly be considered an adult. Even more convincing example can be found in Russian, where formal logic cannot distinguish "юноша" (a young man) and "мужчина" (a man).
Furthermore, some of the established components become antiquated and should be revised, which may change the whole system. The existing distinction between only "male" and "non-male" is not enough as people can be male, female or undecided, as well as having "male" as the basic value is not politically correct.
Another key criticism of this approach is that it does not describe metaphors, idioms and different meanings of one word, not to mention idiomatic expressions. None of the semantic interactions between words are considered as well. The phrase "a good boy" consists of an article, an adjective and a noun. As it has been shown before the word "boy" can be described with such sense-components: "boy"= "human"& "male" & "non-adult". In this case an adjective "good" is applied to the whole set of components. However, in some phrases, such as, for example, "an imaginary boy", an adjective is probably applied to the "human" element (meaning an imaginary human which is also male and non-adult), because only that can be imaginary. Nevertheless such correspondence is not described in this approach.
Despite the above criticisms, to say that componential analysis does not function would be wrong. Creationg such an approach has been a great step towards formalizing the description of language and had a significant influence on further developing of formal semantics.


