The House of the Free Child
At the beginning of the 20th century when the great changes in the history of Russia were about to happen the small group of enthusiasts arranged a brand new method of children's up-bringing and education. This method was devised in opposition to the "bourgeois" way of education and was named "free education". In 1906 this idea was put in practice by the member of the Moscow Circle for Coeducational Upbringing and Learning K. N. Venttsel and called the House of the Free Child (HOFC). 
The House of the Free Child was the collective where teachers, parents and children were united on an equal basis. There were no obligatory lessons and most of the studies were devoted to the development of the creative abilities: children were taught to express their opinion using drawing or modeling. Children were grouped according to their interests. Teaching was carried out not only by teachers but also by parents. So called lessons were held in friendly home atmosphere without any disciplinary restrictions. Ultimately, House of the Free Child was reduced in 1909 because of its inability to rear a society member of full value. However, the experience of the House of the Free Child is still of interest for the today pedagogy.
In my essay I would like to talk about pros and cons of the "free education" idea as I suppose that the methods that are used in schools today might be changed according the ideas of the Venttsel and his followers. On the one hand free education gives an opportunity for the child to develop thoroughly and does not violate his wishes at the same time. In the House of the Free Child students are educated in the way they could be educated at homeas they are able to see their parents every time they want therefore students of HOFC do not experience stress unlike the students of ordinary schools. Moreover, this kind of education form  self-sufficient, creative person who is good at applied work. On the other hand children in HOFC don't get enough information about the world around them and they are far able to concentrate and be attentive because HOFC implies free schedule. Furthermore, they don't get enough independency from their parents and become irresponsible, weak and hesitating when they grow up.
In conclusion, I would like to state that it's obvious that the experience of the House of the Free Child is almost unprofitable but the conditions that modern educational system provides, particularly in Russia, are also very poor and have to be reorganized. I guess that  combination of these two systems might solve the half of the problems in education because experience from the past is never useless.
