George Orwell's "Animal farm" is a very famous novel. It is a fictitious story about animals who have made a revolution on their farm, have driven away people and have formed their own government. All activities of the animals are managed by pigs -- the cleverest ones on the farm. Initially they had two chiefs -- two young boars, Snowball and Napoleon. Every Sunday there was a meeting, where boars proposed some decisions and other animals voted for or against them. One day Napoleon drove away Snowball and established a new rule. In spite of the fact that the Animal Farm was becoming richer and richer, animals except pigs and dogs, a kind of police on the farm, kept up less and less freedom and even more, they were losing their wealth. In the end pigs started to live exactly like people - they walked on two legs, they wore clothes, they drank alcohol and they communicated with other animals just as people did.

Despite the fictional and even fantastic plot, Orwell's "Animal farm" describes a rather realistic society, where pigs are the upper class, and other animals are the lower one. Only Benjamen, a donkey, understands what pigs are doing, but he is clever enough for obey them. At the end of the book some other animals, such as Clover, a horse, start to suspect that something is wrong, but they are too shy and week to agree with it. The image is awful for every person, but especially for Russian readers. The scary similarity between the novel's plot and the history of early USSR shocks everyone who knows it rather closely. In fact, one of the author's goals  was to help soviet people see Russian revolution as he saw it. Of course, there can be some serious doubts about his opinion, but anyway Orwell succeeded.

The language of the novel is quite simple. As Orwell had said, this fact should have helped translate it to other languages, especially to Russian. But the main reason, I think, is the way of narration. The plot is described without any discussion, without abstract thoughts etc. -- just simple, dry facts. This is exactly the way how heroes understand what is happening around them. Nominally, Orwell isn't judging animals - he gives us the opportunity to form our own opinion.

Every novel's advantage given above is an excellent reason to consider it as a great book. But as for me, what makes the novel really wonderful is its capability of being understood both as a political satire and as a live story, which tells us about people's (or animal's) craft and stupidity. Alas, a story without happy end. And may be this is why "Animal farm" is a really amazing book.

And it is impossible to forget how breathtaking the novel is. If you are not interested in world history or in philosophical conclusions, you can just enjoy the exciting and unpredictable plot. I think the most amazing moment is the piece of the novel in which Napoleon drives away Snowball. When I was reading the novel, I absolutely could not have expected this.

The book is undoubtedly precious for every audience. It is not just an interesting novel -- it tells us about some simple things that are dreadfully often missed. I think that everyone can enjoy this book.
