     Feminists: past, present and future
      Feminist. Nowadays, this word has become offensive; to call somebody a feminist means to abuse him. But why is that so? Feminism is a well-known ideology, and there was nothing shameful in following it (for a woman, mostly). Let's find out what's the reason for that.
      First of all, we should analyze the story of this phenomenon. Feminist theories and movements appeared throughout the history of humanity. First known feminist philosopher, Mary Wollstonecraft, published her work, in the 1792m in which she described women as the noble, elite estate of society. But feminist ideology became really popular during 19th and early 20th centuries. The goal was to gain the right of women's suffrage, the right of education and running for office. As we all know, nowadays all these rights are considered indisputable and undeniable. 
      The next wave of feminism was born somewhere around 1960s and was finished in early 80s. While first-wavers were focused on suffrage, the second wave was concerned with lots of inequalities and political discrimination. Plenty of liberation fronts appeared during this period. Women were fighting double-standards, participated in political life, and suggested new laws. 
      But why do people consider the word "feminist" offensive and abusive? The main reason is that there are always black sheep. Average feminist was fighting for equal rights, lots of men supported those movements, and there was no abuse.  
      But some fighters for female rights can't see the line between feminism and militant feminine. They believe that only by humiliation and fighting men they can be real "rights fighters". They state their independence; speak about men's otioseness and so on. In their opinion, the world would be much better without men. Those aggressive females are hated both by men and women, and they are the reason of the world "feminist" being offensive nowadays - nobody wants to be compared to them. What's more, such movements destroy the traditional society - trying to build not even democracy, but matriarchate. 
      Summing everything up, I can positively state - feminism in modern condition has no future. Women were given all men's rights, and there is no need to fight for getting more. And the thing that every woman should remember - men also encounter inequality every day, and the only human being able to give equality - is the loved one. 
