Critique 2.
Componential analysis is a way of analyzing of the sense of lexeme into its component parts. In the chapter "Componential analysis" Lyons discusses its principles of work.
The main idea of componential analysis is a word`s decomposition on simple words - sense components. The author describes the word "girl" in a way which is shown below:
"girl"=human & ~male& ~adult, where a symbol "&" means "and", and a symbol "~" is a negation operator.
The method remains a mathematic equality: the described word is a sum of several components. Lyons writes that it allows linguists to express their ideas in a convenient and economic way; nevertheless, componential analysis cannot express all the subtleties of the semantics. For instance, in utterance "Mary and John are a boy and a girl" the object of our attention can be gender not the fact that X and Y are children.
Componential analysis has more shortcomings than advantages. First of all, it cannot explain the complex semantics of words. It gives an idea about general sense of the word. For instance, it is arduous to describe the meaning of word "teenager" by the means of componential analysis. .In the description of "teenager" component words: ~ "adult" will be used. On the other hand, it is incorrect to say that teenager is not an adult. In fact, a teenager is half a child and half an adult, but it impossible to explain using only the means of componential analysis. In this case the scale of age should be included into componential. Unfortunately, the scale is not included in methods of analysis. As a result, it is not evident whereby the decomposition of semantically complex words on component words would be realized. Next, this method has a very narrow scope of usage in linguistics. It was elaborated mainly for computer programs. That is why it applying in other spheres could cause problems. Finally, the ethical problem exists. Some people maintain that mathematical methods should not be used on language. They confirmed that it simplifies the language and leads to its degradation.
In spite of its disadvantages there are also several advantages in this approach. The significant advantage of componential analyze is convenient and economic way of its notation. Finally, the logical mathematic approach allows making this method structured, what allows making the linguists` work more productive and practical.
Therefore, componential analyze is significant for some metalanguage computer programs. It is productive and economic method, but it has a great deal of disadvantages too.