Harmful effects of tourism.
Tourism acts as a bridge connecting people, cultures and communities all over the world, improving the quality of life of host country. However, its rapid expansion has also had detrimental socio-cultural impact in many regions. Did you know that that simple misunderstanding between locals and tourists can provoke a serious conflict? For example, the conflict in Kreuzberg, Berlin. Local people lost their tolerance, because tourists` behavior in the nighttime was unacceptable.
It`s common knowledge that tourists are frequently disrespectful of local customs. Women often walk around in revealing clothing when the social norm is to leave only the face uncovered. This is particularly important in places of worship. Such behavior can cause ill will and can also cause the local people to stray from their beliefs and customs. 
Conflicts can also be caused by the way tourists interact with the locals. Many of them take pictures of the local people like animals in the zoo, without any permission.
It`s obvious that most travelers just are not concerned neither about simple rules of communication nor  traditions of local communities. Therefore, locals are starting to resent the tourists as they fail to pay local culture the necessary respect.
Is there a possible way to handle this problem?
The most important step is to understand foreign culture and its system of values and beliefs. So, the solution is a special program. The aim of such a program is to help establish good relations between  visitors and  host country.
There should be several stages involved in this program. The first stage should be the introduction of obligatory course for tourists which includes lectures to inform people about the country they are going to visit. Unconcerned travelers would be fascinated by the features of  mysterious culture unfamiliar to them before. They would have  amazing opportunity to learn about foreign traditions and customs. Also it might be useful to pay attention to examples of bad experiences in the past in order to avoid similar occurrences in the future.
The second stage is to determine specific recommendations to enhance the awareness of  government and the local community. As for  methods of dealing with immoral behaviour, government should enact strict laws and apply them  to tourists and local people when there are identified incidents of misbehavior.
As a result, this program could help reduce negative perceptions and stereotypes, develop friendships between different nations, and increase the self-esteem of both hosts and tourists. 
We can see it is not so difficult to arrange wonderful travel without negative effect to the local communities. The first step to achieve this is to understand the needs and desires of both sides and create an effective strategy to help avoid potential conflicts between them.

