Today almost everybody realizes that critical thinking is a good quality of  a person to be successful in the life.  But what does this way of accepting information means?  Does everyone understand this term correctly? 
From my point of view, there are many definitions of "critical thinking" and they are often a little bit different. Because of that, there are a lot of misunderstandings in what the term really means.
Firstly, people confuse critical thinking with memorization. I think that almost everybody remembers from school being asked  large amounts of different information. Most teachers suppose that good memory is the most important thing in education. Of course, it is  very reasonable argument and I agree with it. But, for example, many types of equipment have a huge amount of memory and the possibility to use it. Nevertheless everybody understands that these facilities do not have  any hint of thinking. 
Secondly, understanding is taken for critical thinking.  Some people say that by reading or studying something you absorb information and interpret  on your own language of understanding. Thus you carry out the thinking process. But from my point of view, when we do this kind of taking  data we just work on understanding of another person's opinion and our own intellection is passive on the first steps, because information is created by someone else  not  us and we just get it prepared.
Thirdly, people connect logic with critical thinking. They suppose that thinking logically you consider information from different angels and it gives you a big opportunity to use critical thinking. But I believe that logical thinking involves transferring information to another person but not getting new knowledge. That is why we can suppose that logical process follows intuitive process. However, I suppose that intuitive way of thinking does not associated with critical thinking. Intuitive thinking involves also great work, but as usual it occurs in  brains relatively quickly and  intangible, if it is possible to say so. I would like to say by these words that people, for example of creative professions, do not notice the process of intuitive thinking. For instance, an artist,  drawing a picture, does not think about the fact like: "here I'll paint with red", "Why did I take  here this color  not another one?" Typically, in such situations it is hard to explain why you  made the choice this way  not another one.
Nevertheless, some people would say that all points previously mentioned are very important and are parts of critical thinking. They would say that you cannot do anything not using memorization, understanding, logic and intuitive thinking, your life is connected with these terms. I partly agree with it. But I believe that they take part together in critical thinking but are not   main parts of it separately. I am convinced that critical thinking is independent thinking, including expressing  their  point of view,  regardless of the other. In addition, some persons may think that critical  is given from birth or a man does not have it at all. I totally disagree with it.  There are a lot of opportunities for people to develop this ability in school, at university and in everyday life. Everyone can achieve the desired result if the effort is made. It is easy to get  just doing some test or consider the situation critical when you are not supposed to.
To summarize, critical thinking play a very bit  role in our life. Using this ability people can achieve a lot. But it is necessary to understand this term correctly to use more faces of it to get more progress.

