“N or M?” is a work of detective fiction by Agatha Christie first published in 1941. According to the plot, the conjoints Tommy and Tuppence Beresford who used to work for British intelligence service when they were younger feel useless and sidelined. However, the things change when the Second World War begins and Tommy is called out again for a mission for British intelligence and Tuppence decides to follow him in the search for German agents. Another British agent that was following these Germans before dying left a ciphered message that brings the Beresfords to a small and remote hotel “Sans Souci” situated in the seaside Leahampton. At first glance, the hotel and its lodgers seem so ordinary, so inconspicuous that Tommy and Tuppence just can’t believe that something is going on in this quiet place. Nevertheless, when they start to investigate the agents realize that everything is not what it seems. As the story progresses the reader will be faced with dangers and adventures, incredible plot twists and certainly a really unexpected outcome.
This classical spy novel fascinated me from the first pages and kept me in suspense until the very end. It is significant that all the characters even the minor ones are extremely richly drawn. Perfectly described environment and landscapes of Leahampton and emotions of the heroes transmitted in with all their plentitude made me travel in time and find myself looking for an answer to the mystery and trying to detect German agents with Tommy and Tuppence. The author managed to create something disturbing and gripping, a real page-turner and at the same time not light weighted at all. Through the dialogs author draws our attention to some serious problems. Thus the novel made me not only wandering who was the German spy, but also to muse on problems such as a real patriotism or the vision of war of ordinary people, of soldier’s wives and mothers. Therefore, this is a moving, fascinating work and thought provoking at the same time.
I would recommend to read this book to people of all ages, especially to those who want to escape the boring everyday reality and to dive into the atmosphere of danger and adventure.
