Nowadays there are a lot of different magazines newspapers and others sources of various information from politics to culture. All pieces of news appear due to the work of journalists. Today there are a lot of opinions about the jobs in journalism: is it a good profession to make a living or not?
From my point of view, journalism is a good profession. First of all, it is a very important kind of job for all people. Due to journalists we get information from all over the world. They make it accessible through the Internet,  TV,  magazines or newspapers, or  radio. They sometimes have to go very far away from their home to make a report from some places where something interesting or even dangerous is happening.  Just imagine how little we would know about what is happening around if there were no journalists. It also should be mentioned that due to rating wars journalists from different media try to never miss a deadline. That is why we also get the latest news in a timely manner. Secondly, journalism is a very interesting profession. Working as a correspondent you often have to go to very unusual places, sometimes even to dangerous areas. Using the skills of getting the required information, you make a good report for people and in addition you learn a lot of new things, see new places, meet people and, what is more important, improve journalistic skills. Journalists should provide the quality material. That is why they have to understand theater, art, politics, which makes their life bright and rich. Furthermore, journalism is a useful profession for the person who works in this sphere. People wanting to become a good journalist in getting their higher education degree learn how to write clear and concise sentences, how to process the required information. Moreover, it is important to be able to deal with different people. So being a journalist you develop personal qualities such as trust, patience, perseverance, tact and tolerance, and communicative skills. All these qualities help people to be successful at work. For example,  author and presenter of the TV program "Top Secret" Stanislav Kucher demonstrates "creative hearing". Free, quiet manner of conversation, respect, unbiased attitude allow the journalist to discuss even the most sensitive issues without using manipulative techniques.
However, some people are confident that journalism is a "dirty" job because they often make money on other people's mistakes or misfortunes. People suppose that journalist will do almost everything for a scoop or to break a story. I do not agree with this statement. If you are a well educated person you know all libel laws and follow them. Moreover, respectable press companies do everything to maintain their reputation. So they keep an open mind and always check the sources of information before providing a story, and they always respect the privacy of public people. What is  important  there are companies whose work is aimed at monitoring  media. For example, PR News is a specialized agency to analyze PR-campaigns and media monitoring in Moscow and other regions of Russia and Western Europe. The company uses two ways of tracking press services. The first one is the audit of the press service for the period of time. The second method is based on feedback from journalists and other media: editors, major bloggers and so on. Skilled, precise, correct survey of journalist's work helps diagnose the problem and prevent its negative effects. Two described methods help determine how precise and objective information of a certain press-service .
To summarize, there are some arguments about the profession of journalist. But there is no doubt that this vocation brings a lot of good to people from all over the world as well as to journalists themselves in a way of developing a lot of human skills.
