Critical review of John Lyons' chapter Homonymy and Polysemy; Lexical and Grammatical Ambiguity in Linguistic Semantics: An Introduction.
John Lyons (1995) Linguistic Semantics: An Introduction. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Pres., pp. 54-60.
Homonymy and Polysemy; Lexical and Grammatical Ambiguity is a chapter of the book written by John Lyons, in which the author attempts to clarify the difference between homonymy and polysemy. These linguistic terms have no precise notions therefore the author has to find some criteria in order to solve the problem of distinguishing these concepts. 
Homonyms are traditionally defined as different words or, to be more precise, lexemes, with the same form whereas polysemy is a property of single lexemes to have various meanings. The author demonstrate the shortcoming of these notions which is that native speakers and linguists in particular instances can not come to an agreement about what counts as one word with different meanings and what as different words. Because of that, it is a problem to compile a single dictionary where it would be specified for every lexeme with more than one meaning whether it is a case of polysemy or homonymy. 
In the following paragraphs, John Lyons propones two criteria which are used to clarify a distinction between homonymy and polysemy. The first criterion is etymology, or the historical source of the word. According to this criterion, two words with different etymology are homonyms whereas words with the same etymology are polysemous words. The second criterion is relatedness of meaning; it signifies that homonyms are unrelated in meaning on the contrary to polysemous words. Then the author describes two particular cases, one of which illustrate how etymology supports the intuitions of native speakers about disconnectedness of meaning in certain words, and another one where popular etymology prevents speakers from making a correct decision about their relatedness.
The author succeeds in providing essential information about the topic and captures readers' interest. However, his criteria, which should be interrelated, do not work well together in particular cases. For instance, the word 'pupil' in the English language has two meanings: a student of primary school and the contractile aperture in the iris of the eye. It might be supposed, that in the majority of cases native speakers would not recognize these words as etymologically connected and would say that there is no relatedness of their meaning. Nevertheless, these words were taken from the same Latin origin word pupilla and they should be considered as polysemous words according to the first criterion. But in modern English pupil as a student and pupil as a part of the eye have no relatedness of meaning which signifies that the criteria contradict one another.
Another example of discrepancy is a Russian word lopatka which has two meanings: shoulder-blade and shovel. These words are not etymologically connected, lopatka as the shoulder-blade came from the Latin word scapula and lopatka as the shovel was taken from the Proto-Slavonic word. However, it is argued that they have no relatedness of meaning. Native Russian speakers might say that the shape of the shoulder-blade is rather similar to the shape of the shovel thus these words are somehow related in their meaning. And while the author does not mention which criterion is more important and valid, the reader might fail to define whether these words are polysemous or homonymous.
In other words, while these criteria in general are useful, there is a lack of cohesion between them in particular instances. It is still unclear what to do with these cases, so it might have been more profitable for the issue if the author had produced more criteria and had considered some sophisticated examples.


