  Have you ever faced beauty, ruining people's lives? Have you ever seen people, suffering from yourself? If you are interested in the strings of the human soul, you need to read the novel "The picture of Dorian Gray" by Oscar Wilde.
  You hope that having read the book, you are interested in an exciting story? No, the beginning is quite boring and long, I think. Forgive me for the spoon of tar in a barrel of honey, oh, my dear reader!
  So, I will introduce you to the characters of the book that appear on the pages of the novel. Dorian Gray is a young man, endowed with incredible beauty. Falling under the influence of the ideas of hedonism, preached by Lord Henry, he has dedicated her life to the hedonism and vice. It combines delicate aesthete, a romantic and vicious, ruthless criminal. These two opposite sides of his character are in constant struggle with each other.
  Basil Hallward is an artist who wrote the picture of Dorian Gray. From the other heroes he is attachment to Dorian Gray, in which he saw the ideal of beauty and man. He is the "guardian angel" of Dorian Gray. 
Lord Henry is an aristocrat, a preacher of the new ideas of hedonism. His paradoxical, contradictory thinking imbued with criticism at all of English society.
Sibyl Vane is an actress and one of the most amazing images of the novel. Before meeting with Dorian Gray, she lived in her fantasy world, the world of theater, where she was a talented actress. Love showed her all the artificiality of her world, where she lived, but only played. Talent lost in her soul with love, she tried to escape from the world of illusion to the real world.
  What did happen to the heroes? Dorian Gray under the influence of Lord Henry had changed, and not for the better. He fell in love with Sibyl Vane, but in one tragic night his feelings for her ended. She graduated from suicide. What did Dorian Gray do? He continued to live from year to year, his heart was evil, and beauty continued to live. Only the picture of Dorian, drawn Basil, aged, acquired all of the terrible things that made the main character.
  I think the beauty in life and old age on canvas have been the torment of Dorian Gray. Death was the end of the search for the meaning of life Dorian. How did he die? You will find information about it, after reading the novel by the great writer and poet Oscar Wilde.
The writer Oscar Wilde in his novel personified Basil Hallward, Dorian Gray was his friend Alfred Douglas. The fate of the author was tragic: he loved his friend Alfred Douglas, for which he was to jail. The thin nature of the writer, his quest itself gave the world the greatest creations about who is a man.
