«She’s got flavor»

What is blog?  Wiki says that a blog is a Web page that serves as a publicly accessible personal journal 

for an individual. Typically updated daily, blogs often reflect the personality of the author.

I like cooking so I often surf the internet in search of new recipes. Recently, I have found one interesting 

blog : «She’s got flavor». It is the blog of Utokia Langley who is not professional chef, but flavor 

enthusiast. She has been sharing easy to follow flavorful recipes with the world since 2010.  She is a self-

taught home cook who has been cooking since she was enough to use the stovetop! She’s Got Flavor is a 

place where she shares recipes she’s developed over the years.

First of all when you enter the blog you see different categories: home, recipes, videos, my thoughts, 

etc. Then after choosing the category we can find very interesting and useful things. For example, I often 

I go to the recipe section there I should choose what I want to cook: breakfast, dinner, dessert and so 

on.  I click on the word breakfast and opens a whole page with pictures of food. If something interests 

me, I click on the orange text in capital  letters to see step by step description of the recipe that is 

accompanied by pictures.

It is very important that the text is written in plain language. For example recipe of Croissants With 

Honey: « oh yeah baby, there is something about fresh baked croissants ~ ahhh, a lil’ honey 

please..»..writes Utokia. It is very funny to read such description from an adult women and mother.

She sometimes prepares meals of other blogers and then posts on her page the best ones in the section 

«My toughts».One more thing that I like in her blog is that there are also videos of cooking,but the main 

plus of her blog is that every visitor can easily get in touch with writer.

I suggest everyone who searches for unusual or only tasty recipes to visit the blog «She’s got flavor». I’m 

sure that you will find something that will be close to your spirit.
