John Lyons. Homonymy and Polysemy : Lexical and Grammatical Ambiguity. Linguistic Semantics. Pp. 54-60. 
 Every day we use a significant amount of words that have different interpretations and generally we need a context to understand the meaning of the word phrase. John Lyons, an English linguist, attempts to study what the notion of "lexical ambiguity" means. In the chapter Homonymy and polysemy; lexical and grammatical ambiguity he represents his study of such terms like "homonymy" and "polysemy" and the distinction between them. 
The author aims to distinguish homonymy and polysemy and adduces his own criteria for this purpose. Although the criteria of Lyons are clear and illustrative, they are not sufficient. 
The first way of making the distinction is to appeal to the etymology of the words. John Lyons confirms that if it is possible to prove that word forms are historically descended from the unrelated words with different lexical meaning then it is a case of homonymy. This criterion could be named uncertain. The sufficient condition of homonymy is closely related to the developments of words in earlier ages. Such circumstances imply that almost all speakers should know the lexical derivation of every word but it is evidently implausible. First, there are some words the derivation of which is unknown at all. Moreover, we cannot know about every word undoubtedly because there are a lot of adoptions, new meanings are appearing and it is not evident how far back we should go to know the history of the word. That is why the etymological criterion could be considered as unfounded. 
In addition to the etymological principle of the distinction, John Lyons emphasizes another criterion: relatedness of meaning. The author correlates relatedness of meaning with polysemy and, on the contrary, unrelatedness - with homonymy. Intuition of the speakers plays the main role in this distinction that means they themselves can define the degree that shows the relatedness of lexical items. This statement could not be taken into account as a strict rule because intuitive assessment is very subjective and what for one person is very familiar could be remote likeness for another. That is why this criterion might be used only as a testing supplement to another important fact.
To sum up,although  John Lyons made a major contribution in the study of such notions as "homonymy" and "polysemy", his criteria in distinguishing these notions are not sufficient enough to be crucial in decision-making.


