Some people think it is more important that cities provide cheap housing and facilities, while other think that it its worth spending money onbuildings that look beautiful.Nowadays, there are many ugly houses in cities which mar up the sight. If the government would spend more money on design and decorating, thelook of the city was more beautiful.In modern democratic world, city authorities have to spend money received from citizens in according with their requests and wishes. Butsometimes these requests could be completely different. One of such cases is the problem of choice between beauty of the city and comfort of thecitizens. Should the local authorities decorate the streets or, on the contrary, should they provide a lot of cheap comfortable accommodationfor townspeople?There are people who are convinced that beauty is on the first place. If the streets of the city are clean, if there are a lot of trees andflowers and there is plenty of places to take a walk, if the houses are decorated in an original fresh way, the inhabitants of this city will behappy to live in it. Otherwise, if the streets are dirty and dull, if the houses are grey and there are no flowers, the people will be depressedand sorrowful.I cannot but agree that beauty is essential in the city. But imagine a person who does not have his own dwelling. Would he appreciate thedecorated houses, the flowers and the clean streets? Would the make him happy? Evidently, they would not. These beautiful features are valuableonly for people who live in comfort.There is also a theoretical argument which proves my point of view. In the hierarchy of needs created by Abraham Maslow the physiological andthe safety needs are beyond the aesthetic needs. It means that if our need of safety is not accomplished, our need of beauty will not be soimportant for us. I am not sure that Maslow was completely right, but I think that, anyway, some sense could be found in this statement inconnection with the problem discussed above. If a person is hungry and cold, he will not feel much admiration towards the beautiful streets ofhis city.To conclude, I can say that although beauty is very important, it is completely necessary to provide all the facilities and to make the life ofcitizens comfortable before decorating the streets and planting the flowers.