When people talk about the Bronte sisters’ works most of them remembers the novel "Jane Eyre" by Charlotte Bronte. Book lovers discuss about Emily Bronte’s works infrequently. The fact that "Jane Eyre" was translated into Russian earlier than "Wuthering Heights" just proves the lack of attention to the middle sister’s novel. 
Many people, generally those who have never read the book, consider Wuthering Heights like a straightforward love story. But this is a mistake. At the first blush the plot of this unusual novel is not a big deal. Really the story is one of revenge. 
There are two estates, two opposites: Wuthering Heights and the Grange starlings. The first represents the anxiety, violent and unconscious feelings; the second is a harmonious and measured existence, the comfort of home. In the center of the story is a truly romantic figure, a hero without a past, Heathcliff. We don`t know where and when the owner of Wuthering Heights, Mr. Earnshaw, found him. The whole story follows the life of Heathcliff, a mysterious gypsy-like person, from childhood (about seven years old) to his death in his late thirties. Heathcliff rises in his adopted family and then is reduced to the status of a servant, running away when the young woman he loves decides to marry another. He returns later, rich and educated, and sets about gaining his revenge on the two families that he believed ruined his life.
This is a book about love, but strange love. This novel is about the fate, the will, about a man and space...
As for me, I really like this novel. When I read “Wuthering Heights” I felt something new because such genre like that is not my preference. To my surprise, I read this book avidly, with a big interest because all that family dramas made me nervous. All events in this work made me worry about the characters. 
But I have to agree that this novel is not for everyone. Someone can find it too tedious and boring because some events in the book are developing really quite slowly but, in my opinion, reading this book is worth the time.
