"The Road less travelled" is a book written by Scott M. Peck, an American psychiatrist. As for me, it is a real guidebook to the whole life.
It suits best for people inclined towards reflection and self-development but not knowing how to start. 
It shows the thorny path across one’s life to harmony, grace, and love. Everybody can find there the inspiration to move on if they are lost in this world but are ready for difficult work on themselves in order to find answers on to their questions and solutions for their problems...

It teaches universal values sometimes forgotten or misunderstood. I believe that everyone can find in this book some specific issues very important for them personally. I love this book; it gives me hope, patience, and inspiration. 

"The Road less travelled" is amazingly well structured, the author smoothly and logically directs his reader to the main issues and conclusions of the book. The author reasons about fundamental issues basing on his long-term experience in psychotherapy.  All Peck’s assertions are illustrated by wonderful examples of his patients’ life stories. That makes this book truly absorbing.
"The Road less travelled" is divided in four parts: Discipline, Love, Growth and Religion, and Grace.

In the first section, named Discipline, Scott is talking about how to solve problems. One of the main issues is stated in the very beginning. I love the way it is said, let me quote it here. “Life is difficult. This is the great truth, one of the greatest truths. It is the great truth because once we truly see this truth we can transcend it… Because once it is accepted, the fact that life is difficult no longer matters”. This means that the main thing we should understand in life is that suffering is normal. The main thing that prevents us from spiritual growth, which - according to Peck - is the main goal of human life, is the fear of suffering. We can see it when we are afraid of responsibilities, of problem solving, of saying truth, etc. 
The main idea of this part is that to overcome this fear one should be extremely disciplined, there is no other way. "Discipline is the means of human spiritual evolution". 
Moreover, there is one more point that does not seem obvious to me. Dr Peck asserts that depression or different crises is the result of “reloading the outdated map” and is just normal critical stages of development, after which we can, in a sense, be reborn.  

Nevertheless, a person cannot be disciplined enough without a source of energy for it. This motive according to Dr Peck is love. Thus, the second section is called Love. It speaks on what the real love is, what deceitful myths about it there are, and how destructive they can be.
Scott's definitions of love deserves notice. Dr Peck believes that love is "the will to extend one's self for the purpose of nurturing one's own or another's spiritual growth". That means that love takes time and serious work, and cannot be easy and romantic as it is so often portrayed in films and books. What also seems important to Scott in human life is “a gradual but progressive enlargement of the self, an incorporation within of the world without, and a growth, a stretching and thinning of our ego boundaries. In this way the more and longer we extend ourselves, the more we love, the more blurred becomes the distinction between the self and the world. We become identified with the world. And as our ego boundaries become blurred and thinned, we begin more and more to experience the sort of feeling of ecstasy”.

The title of the third section is Growth and Religion. This part is most illustrated by examples from his patients’ lives. This makes it interesting to read. Peck states there so many points that it will be too long to discuss them here. Actually, I think, that this part should have been a separate book as it could be even more detailed and developed in a way. The point is that some answers to the questions can be found in religion. However, wrong understanding of religion and God leads to a frightful variety of psychological problems.

The last section called Grace is my favourite. When I read it, I feel a real catharsis. The issue is that there is a lot of miracles around us. In fact, there is a lot of miracles in us.  As Peck writes, “our growth as human beings is being assisted by a force other than our conscious will” and this will he calls grace.

In conclusion, Scott M. Peck’s book opens the door from wrong believes that can ruin our lives to grace, love, and harmony. As Scott Peck writes, the major purpose of this book is "to assist those on the journey of spiritual growth”. And in my case it has riched its destination. I am sure, that it was not the last time I read "The Road less travelled".
