Unused opportunities in my life
	When I was in 4th class in school, my parents had me signed for different classes like Ski, English and Tennis. I visited these courses even during  summer (even ski course which transformed to special ski-looking rolling skates for warm seasons).
	I was showing good progress in tennis and at some point I had to give up my ski course to spend more time on tennis as I liked it more. I was not going to give up my English course because learning English was a pleasure. 
	Tennis coach was impressed with me and my partner's results and we faced the question  whether or not to join the professional tennis career. Joining it would result in decreased time left for studying that would negatively affect my grades. I would also have to skip some school days in order to visit tournaments and championships. So, I had tennis career on one side of the scales and successful school graduation on the other.
	I really wanted to continue playing tennis no matter which side of the scales I would choose. But joining tennis career would open new perspectives such as travelling abroad, new (foreign) friends and popularity like Marat Safin had in case my career would have developed in the right way. Although, if my career won't happen to be successful, it would be difficult to switch to another profession due to lack of knowledge and skills I should have acquired at school. I would have to meet the above mentioned barrier in my mid-ages (30-40) when most professional tennis players end their career and switch to coaching (mostly due to reason that the only thing they know good is how to play tennis right). 
	After spending a couple of weeks considering joining tennis career I decided to move "tennis as part of my life" to hobby and continue my education at school.  I had to change tennis coach as he was going to switch to professional tennis coaching and in less than a year I left tennis training as I had skills that allowed me to play casually with my friends. I was happy to have time to try other sports like volleyball and table tennis.
	Meanwhile, my tennis partner decided to join tennis career but I haven't heard of him since that time. He had to transfer to another school that was sport oriented and with decreased number of other disciplines. I don't know if he hadn't succeeded in his tennis career or whether he had switched his opinion on this subject.
	Sometimes I regret that I didn't follow sport career but after that I look at what I have now and see that I can play tennis for my pleasure, I have good education and skills to choose a job that I would like to have, so I can say that the choice I made proved to be successful.	
	Life often places you in position where you have to choose one option among several equal, and today I can say that I am happy with the current situation, though I don't know if I would be in a worse position if I would have chosen another options.
