Police: Fired worker beheaded Oklahoma women. 

The policeman said that an employee who had just been fired from an Oklahoma food processing plant had beheaded a woman with a knife and had been attacking another worker when he had been shot and wounded by a company official. 

Police Sgt. Jeremy Lewis said that Alton Nolen, 30 years old, was unconscious, but he adds that he would be arrested when he woke up. The reporter said that during Thursday's attack, Nolen had beheaded Colleen Hufford, 54, with the same kind of knife used in plant. He also said that Nolen had stabbed Traci Johnson, 43, a number of times before company CEO Mark Vaughan had shot him. Lewis noticed that it could have gotten a lot worse if Mark Vaughan hadn't stopped it. Police said that the FBI had been asked for assistance in the case because of the "manner of death" of the victim and reports from coworkers that Nolen had recently started trying to convert several employees to Islam. 


The Islamic Society of North America said in a statement that although initial reports indicated that Nolen had recently converted to Islam and it wasn't clear yet what had motivated Alton Nolen to commit such a heinous act of violence. They also added that no faith could in any way justify or condone such brutality and they urged all people of good conscience and faith to come together during this terrible tragedy and not use this incident to unfairly scapegoat an entire religious community. "


In a statement, FBI Special Agent in Charge James E. Finch said the motive for the attack had not been determined but that there was no reason to believe there was a threat to anyone else.1

Oklahoma Department of Corrections records said Nolen had served time in prison and was on probation for assault and battery on a police officer. They also added that he had been convicted of cocaine possession with intent to distribute in 2011.

The Police reminded that corrections records showed Nolen had what appear to be religious tattoos, including one referencing Jesus and one in Arabic that means "peace be with you."

Lewis said Nolen had been fired in a building that houses the company's human resources office, then immediately drove to the entrance of the business. Lewis said he didn't know why the man was fired.

Oklahoma beheading
An Oklahoma State trooper help secure the scene at Vaughan Foods.  
Vaughan Foods said in a statement that their thoughts and prayers went out to the families and friends of the team member they had lost and all those affected. He added that their  focus was on the safety and well-being of their employees."

The company said it would provide counseling and support for its staff and would continue to work with authorities.

Company spokeswoman Danielle Katcher said in a statement that Since Friday morning, trained counselors had been available to all employees at our Moore facility and that confidential counseling service was providing individualized assistance to those struggling to make sense of this painful experience.
