No one can deny, that novels are written by F. Scott Fitzgerald have become extremely popular in our days, and especially “The Great Gatsby”.
For contemporaries F. Scott Fitzgerald was not just a writer, but a living legend, a incarnation of the spirit of the time. In the 1920s, he became the idol of American youth. This reputation has stayed with him forever, and even today, the American critic continues to call him a singer of "the jazz century". In the novel "The Great Gatsby" Fitzgerald explores the phenomenon of the "American dream". Although “The Great Gatsby” was staged on Broadway and was adapted into a movie in Hollywood, the novel wasn’t popular during lifetime of F. Scott Fitzgerald. Fitzgerald died in 1940, believing that his work has been forgotten. However, the novel revived during World War II, and in short time became a part of American high school program and numerous stage and film adaptations in the following decades. And I read that nowadays “The Great Gatsby” is widely considered to be a literary classic and a contender for the title "Great American Novel".
  Plot of this novel shows us great example of sociology conception by Georg Simmel which he describes in his article “The Gold Coast and the Slums”. The novel takes place near New York.  F. Scott Fitzgerald describes the fictional town of West Egg on prosperous Long Island in the summer of 1922. The characters of the novel live on the "gold coast" among the villas of the rich. We can see two perspectives which are showed by author for us. First place on "gold coast" shows us the world of luxury, money and carefree life and second place is the road from West Egg to New York is the dirtiest place where we can see workers with gaunt faces. So looking at this locality around characters a reader can see the stratification which characterizes society in twenties in USA.
As for me this story is special and the main character Jay Gatsby (originally James "Jimmy" Gatz) is the best man of this novel because no matter can change his way which he imagined in his head and no one can take his dream. The dream what inspired him all his live. Although, some people can say that his dream has killed him but it is another question. 
 The novel's narrator is Nick Carraway, a Yale graduate and World War I veteran from the Midwest. Nick is a man from preferred family but he isn’t in society of “Bright Young People”. He is different from them. That is why he could explain the story about Gatsby from another side. 
The novel begins when Nick rents a small house on Long Island, next door to the lavish mansion (Hotel de Ville like author named it) of Jay Gatsby, a millionaire who holds parties but does not participate in them. Nick drives at the home of his cousin, Daisy Fay Buchanan, and her husband, Tom, a college acquaintance of Nick's. They introduce Nick to Jordan Baker, an attractive, young golfer with whom Nick begins a romantic relationship. But their story of love is not the main in this novel. Nick is not a dreamer, he understand his status and his needs. Then Jordan explains to Nick that Tom and Daisy have problem in their family life. That problem is Myrtle Wilson, mistress of Tom. She lives in the "valley of ashes". Not long after this moment, Nick travels to New York City with Tom and Myrtle to an apartment they keep for their affair. At the apartment, a vulgar and dirty party takes place.
             In one summer day, Nick receives an invitation to one of Gatsby's parties. Nick meets Jordan at the party, and they meet Gatsby, although nobody in Gatsby’s house knows him. Through Jordan, Nick learns that Gatsby knew Daisy from a romantic encounter in 1917 and is deeply in love with her. He spends many nights staring at the green light at the end of her dock, across the bay from his mansion, hoping to one day rekindle their lost romance. Gatsby's lifestyle and wild parties only for Daisy in the hope that she will one day appear again at Gatsby's house. Jay Gatsby now wants Nick to arrange a reunion between himself and Daisy. Nick invites Daisy to have tea at his house, without telling her that Gatsby will be there. Gatsby cares about Nick’s home decoration. All parts of this meeting must be amazing because he wait his dream, Daisy. After that meeting, Gatsby and Daisy reestablish their connection. They begin an affair and, after a short time, Tom sees something of his wife's relationship with Gatsby. At a luncheon at the Buchanans' house, Daisy speaks to Gatsby with such strange, intimate voice that Tom realizes she is in love with Gatsby. Tom realizes that his wife no longer belongs to him. He forces the group to drive into New York City and confronts Gatsby in a suite at the Plaza Hotel, announcing that he and Daisy have a history that Gatsby could never understand. In addition to that, he announces to his wife that Gatsby is a criminal whose fortune comes from bootlegging alcohol. Gatsby can’t understand that his dream hopelessly escapes from him and he rushes to Tom. In this moment he shows to other persons in the room that he isn’t from their environment. Daisy realizes that her allegiance is to Tom, and Tom sends her back to East Egg with Gatsby, because he wants to humiliate her. When Nick, Jordan, and Tom drive through the valley of ashes on their way home, they discover that Gatsby's car has struck and killed Myrtle. Nick later learns from Gatsby that Daisy, not Gatsby himself, was driving the car, but Gatsby takes the blame. Myrtle's husband, George, concludes that the driver of the yellow car is the secret lover. After finding out the yellow car is Gatsby's, he arrives at Gatsby's mansion where he fatally shoots both Gatsby and then himself. Nick stages a small funeral for Gatsby (no one of Gatsby “friends” came to his funeral, also Daisy), ends his relationship with Jordan, and moves back to the Midwest, disillusioned with the Eastern lifestyle.
   The best phrase of this novel is “They’re a rotten crowd” which Nick says to Gatsby. The words clearly express, that people from privileged family can be emptier than empty bottle and on another hand Gatsby whose big dream, strong character and clear soul made him better than them. «The Great Gatsby» is probably the greatest novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald, book that offers damning and insightful views of the American nouveau riche in the 1920s. He is the writer, who opens for readers new century, «century of jazz». 
