I want to tell  about the book I've just read. It is written by A. Huxley and is called "Brave New World".

The action takes place in the far future. The world look very different from the one we live in. Consumer is becoming the only thing people need. people can't be born in a natural way  they are provided by a special department. 

But one man called Bernard, who is supposed to be handsome by nature (as all people  are divided into castes, and he belongs to the high one), in fact looks very average. He feels shy about it and doesn't like spending spare time by communicating with whoever he can and consuming welfare. However, one time this guy  to invite one girl, who is considered extremely beautiful, to make a trip to the South America. South America is a reservation for people who have been considered unable to be turned into consumers. They are living normal lives and having normal values. The visitors meet an old woman and her son there, and they turn out to be the accidental inhabitants of the reservation. The old woman used to be from one of the high castes of the society but one day she as lost in the reservation where she as spending time with her lover. 

Being in the reservation, Bernard finds out his boss has decided to fire him as he's abnormally unsociable. Having found it out, Bernard makes  the way to prevent his dismissal and founds a research on the people from the reservation who don't differ from the ordinary people genetically but have been living much closer to the nature tha ordinary people do. He brings the son of the old woman to London and tries to teach him how to use all the . But  the son of the old woman, who is always called the Savage, doesn't like it and finally refuses  be an object of  research. He runs away and tries to start living the way he has lived before. But the journalists find where he's hiding and try to interview him. He refuses, but the most crafty journalist finds the way to film the documentary on the Savage not asking for his permission. After the release a great number of tourists come to see the Savage every day, and finally he realises he has become a part of the amus system. After that he ends up committing a suicide  of despair and blind fury.

Marina, you overuse Present Continuous when you use it for another action in the storyline and for non-progressive verbs - see the corrections.



