It is a popular belief that children should statrt lerning foreign language as early as possible, for example at primary school. It is a very interesting statement because in a modern world being able to speak at least one foreign language is an important skill. In order to  become a successful person you need to learn different things, but there is no time for managing all skills, so why don't start doing it in a primary school?
It is scientifically proven that humans absorb information easily in early age. Nowadays there are even kindergardens where your child will learn a foreign language! Many tasks can be presented as engaging games, so children won't get bored while learning new words. Also there are lots of books for small children, so parents can tell them a fairy tale in a foreign language. If you start learning a language in a primary school, you will know a lot when you in your 20s. A person will have a great opportunity to go abroad and study in another country.
Well, there are always some people who disagree with this statement. They claim that a child is a child and he or she should play rather than learn difficult things. They support their opinion by saying that some grammar points might be difficult to 7 years old. They quit right here, but no one will describe conditionals to a person in such an early age. Their other argument is that children won't use foreign language till secondary or even high school, so why should they learn useless things?
As for me, I've been learning english since my childhood, even earlier than primary school. I should admit that I didn't like it first, but the in 8th grade I suddenly felt interested in it. Now I can watch movies and read books in english as easy as it was my mother tongue. but some of my friends only learned english in secondary and high school, so now they can barely introduce themselves.
All in all, it depends on the person. Some of us have talant for languages and some haven't. But there is no need to feel depressed. Why not try it as early as you can to deside if it is compelling to you or not? Some people just need a motivation. Our life is not long enough to procrastinate it will be very helpful to find your path as soon as you can. Don't waste your time, go for your goals!
