The Colour of Magic is a comic fantasy novel and the first book in Discworld series, written by Terry Pratchett in 1983. It is a third-person narration from the perspective of author.
The concept of flat world is not unfamiliar for Pratchett. His pre-Discworld novel Strata features the possibility of such kind of worlds. This concept was carried into Discworld, where the eponymous dimension is floating on tops of three elephants, who, consequently, are carried by Great A’Tuin the turtle.
The story begins with two heroes, Bravd the Hublander and Weasel, watching the twin city of Ankh-Morpork burn to ashes. Some time later they are joined by Rincewind the wizard, Twoflower the foreigner and Luggage the walking chest. Rincewind then tells a story of his first meeting with Twoflower: bored by his job as a clerk in Agatean Empire, the foreigner decided to move with his Luggage to Ankh-Morpork in search of adventures and heroes. There in The Broken Drum he (or, to be more precise, Luggage, which is made of rare pearwood) was noticed by Rincewind. The wizard’s skills in languages had impressed Twoflower, and Rincewind ended up hired by him as his guide. Since Ankh-Morpork was not the safest city in the Disc and was full of criminals, escorting a so-called “tourist” with a chest full of gold coins had become quite a task for Rincewind. Eventually, after some brawls, kills, explanations of the “inn-sewer-ants” term and burning inns the three escaped Ankh-Morpork. This, however, was only their first adventure. The dark and impossible Temple of Bel-Shamharoth, the upside-down home of dragons - mountain of Wyrmberg and the Edge await them.
The novel, being a comic fantasy, has lots of allusions to other works such as Conan the Barbarian and Dungeons & Dragons and to real life. The author plays with various stereotypes and cliches, exaggerates them and deconstructs. Even the main characters are quite uncommon for fantasy works: a greedy, cynical, cowardly, oath-breaking wizard expelled from the Unseen University and sometimes trying to rob his companion; a rich but naive clerk that decided to become a tourist; and a semi-sapient walking chest that is loyal to its owner and homicidal to everything else. They have a certain charm, however, so they are interesting to watch.
Despite being a parody, The Colour of Magic features a whole new constructed world with its own physics, geography, politics, society and unique atmosphere. Although there are some elements that have been changed in later works of the series, the great amount of work is seen right in the first novel. Discworld itself and its inhabitants are very believable, the characters are three-dimensional and their traits, their relationships tend to change over time. They have weaknesses, but also show good skills in something. For instance, while he is obviously not the best wizard in the world, Rincewind is a talented omniglot who can speak almost every language. He also constantly gets himself into trouble, but still manages to escape from Death. He even manages to save Twoflower’s life in spite of his attempts of robbing him. Twoflower, while a naive tourist, has a keen interest in economics (or “echo-gnomics”) and knows terms others do not know. Even the whole concept of a flat world has two sides: on one hand, it is an obvious allusion to old myths with the exact same idea of turtle and elephants carrying it. On the other hand, it is explained, how this kind of world would exist if it was real.
With comic and fantasy aspects joined together, Terry Pratchett created a book which is entertaining to read even nowadays. Not too humorous, but not too serious - a perfect balance between these two aspects. A simple plot with multifaceted characters, locations and lots of allusions in an original world. An adventure full of fights, magic, heroes, angry chests and talking swords. This is what The Colour of Magic is about. This novel is definitely worth reading for those who like fantasy genre and role-playing games, especially Dungeons & Dragons. It is also a good starting point for those who want to read Discworld series, since it describes the world and its inhabitants. The Colour of Magic is a classic well-written and perfectly balanced parody.
