	
Book review of Nicholas Sparks’ «The Notebook»
I have chosen to review “The Notebook” by Nicholas Sparks, one of the best modern novels, from my point of view. As this book was and still is popular among people of various ages and of genders.
Nicholas wrote it during just 6 months in 1996, later it was adapted into a movie (of the same name) , which appeared in 2004. “According to the information from Wikipedia” this book was one of New York Times  bestsellers for “two years in 1996-1997” and then again in September 2004.This information proves the fact that ”the movie gave the book a second life”.
After reading this book I was puzzled whether it is a real story and if it is, who are those people who inspired Sparks. A very interesting fact is that this book tells us the story of grandparents of Nicholas’s wife, who he had been married to for more than 60 years. She always praised them as the best example of pure love.
This story is unique, because no matter what has happened in the main characters’ lives: war, illness -they didn’t give up, they fought for their happiness. It is not surprising that the story of long and beautiful love inspired Nicholas to write his novel. The book is particularly impressive for highly strong narrative part, developed in a masterful plot. The novel comprises ten chapters and there are two main characters: Allison Nelson and Noah Calhoun.


Noah Calhoun was the narrator of his own life , which constitutes  the main story of the book. He was a very handsome and kind person. He fell in love with Allie more than fourteen years before the beginning of the novel. He fought in the II World War defending his homeland, and he wrote the letters to his love all that time. He had never forgotten Allie and was very happy when one day she came to visit his new house.
Allison Nelson was a girl from a privileged family. She was very  good-looking and attractive.
She fell in love with Noah, who was from a family of ordinary workers.
Allie spent a wonderful summer with him, but she was forced by her parents to break up with Noah because of his social class. Later she met Lon and became engaged to him, but something was troubling her, and she decided to return to Noah, afraid to make a mistake.

The book begins from the introduction of the main character, Noah Calhoun.
He characterized his life “as a blue chip stock: fairly stable, more ups than downs, and gradually trending upward with time.” He continued the narration describing the story of his life, which involved both romance and tragedy, paths and choices he had to make.
After introducing himself the main character took The Notebook, the book where all the best moments of his life were reflected and went to a nursing home, where his beloved wife was taken care of . Visiting her was a daily need for both of them .
Everyday he took her for a walk, seated her in a comfortable chair and began reading stories from the Notebook in order to help her to remember him at least for a minute. She didn’t remember him because she had dementia.
Their love story started in a summer, it was summer of mad love.
She was 15, he was 17. Allie was a girl from a wealthy family, and Noah , the son of a woodcutter.
In the south of America the origin was very important .Then came many years of separation.
It is believed that for real feelings barriers and obstacles are like the wind to fire causing only brighter flares .
But only if you know that somebody loves and is waiting for you .None of the two lovers knew that thing.
Noah had written 365 letters to Allie, but her mother Anne Hamilton didn’t give them to her daughter. Three years later, the United States of America joined the World War II , and Noah with his best friend Fin enlisted in the army. Allie worked as an army nurse in the hospital, where she cured an injured soldier, Lon Hammond.
After the war, they met again and Lon, who was wealthy and handsome, proposed to her .
Meanwhile Noah bought and restored the old house. It became very popular and many people wanted to buy this
house.
When Allie accidentally saw the photo of Noah in a newspaper she needed to make a choice, which was not so easy. Would Allie stay with one of the richest lawyers of  South America or would she choose Noah, who really loved her? At this moment the readings stops, because Allie’s and Noah’s children came to the hospital.
The main theme of this novel is love. However, a part is dedicated to various conflicts. Some of them are social, such as the conflict between Noah and Allie’s parents, who didn’t think he was good enough for their daughter.
I would like to express my view of the book from positions of critical and sympathetic readers. A union of Noah and Allie was a union of two creative people and had another talent – love .Many beautiful and smart guys were next to Allie, no matter how many women Noah met after breaking up with Allie, but nobody of them was as magical as Allie or Noah was, with none of the others did the fell the fullness of life.
The story of pure love in literature mostly of all ends tragically, for instance the story of Romeo and Juliet. The story of Noah and Ally is not an exception. Fate played a bad joke on them in their old age, as says Noah himself :”not to recognize the person in front of you, in fact, is the parting forever”.
It is very difficult to cure this disease, but a great sense of love can overcome it , against the terrible diagnosis through to the native soul in order to be for some time together.
To sum up, this novel is not an "ideal love novel" but a novel about a real love.
We read about feelings of ordinary men and women, and this story could have happened to anyone.
I think it is very easy to answer the question why this book became an absolute bestseller in the USA.
Firstly, because such a story can melt the heart of any reader. Secondly, because the book provokes a storm of emotions. Even if Sparks’ language is simple and lacks exquisite style, the reader still empathizes with the heroes and gets involved in their moral dilemmas. The book is very touching, and I think many of us will cry after finishing it .It’s amazing how a personal love story can magically speak to all of us, playing on the same strings in every single heart. This book teaches us to “follow your heart.”
(pg. 139; These are Allie’s mother’s parting words to her.) It teaches us to love deeply enough to awake every sacred melody of the heart.
People who don't like this book first, usually return to it after they’ve experienced the joy and sorrow of love. It is hard to explain how the author of "The Notebook" can look so deep into our souls, but I recommend everybody to read it in order to experience it yourself !
