     I choose “The Great Gatsby” for my review, because I saw the movie and I want to know more about characters. In the novel "The Great Gatsby" Fitzgerald explores the phenomenon of the "American dream”. The novel takes place near New York. F. Scott Fitzgerald describes the fictional town of the West Egg. The characters of the novel live on the "gold coast". We can see two perspectives, which author shows us. The first place on "gold coast" shows us the world of luxury, money and carefree life and the second place is the road from West Egg to New York is the dirtiest place where we can see workers with gaunt faces. Readers can see stratification of society. 
                 I can say that Gatsby is my favorite character because nothing can change his way and nobody can take away his dream. The author explains us unique situation. We could see that man not only knows what he wants, but also knows what can make him happy. 
                 When I was reading this novel, I saw two positive characters Gatsby and Nick. The novel's narrator Nick is a man from preferred family but he isn’t in society of “Bright Young People”. He is different from them. That is why he could explain the story about Gatsby from another side. The novel begins when Nick rents a small house on Long Island, next door to a millionaire Jay Gatsby who holds parties but does not participate in them. He holds parties only for her. He hopes that once she would come to him. She – is his dream, girl from privileged family, Daisy. It can be story of Romeo and Juliet, but Romeo made a mistake. She isn’t Juliet. Daisy is a woman from another world. Gatsby was faithful for her all his life but she doesn’t need it. Gatsby have great imagination. He composed image of Daisy for himself. But, I think, she is not worthy of it. 
                  F. Scott Fitzgerald, writer who opens a new century for readers, «century of jazz». In my opinion, in the end of the novel we can hear blues. It is tragedy of one man who believed in his dream.  After I had read this novel I understood that Leonardo DiCaprio played his role really well. His smile is very similar to smile of Gatsby, which I imagined, when I was reading the novel. 
