I like experiments in general, especially participating in them. I have participated in some psycholinguistic experiments. Psycholinguistics is the area of linguistics, which attracts my attention. In this essay, I would like to tell you about one of the experiments by Lera Boroditsky. Boroditsky L. is an Associate Professor of Cognitive Science at UCSD and Editor in Chief of Frontiers in Cultural Psychology. Previously, she served on the faculty at MIT and at Stanford. Her research is on the correlation between mind, world, and language. She has many amazing researches such as experiment with English and Mandarin (something about time) or experiment with Japanese and Spanish (something about cup).One of the experiments, which I want to describe in my essay, consist of three pictures and speakers of two different languages, English and Indonesians. 
    The experiment began when one of the students from Indonesia assured Boroditsky, who had some doubts about it, that Indonesians don’t think and worry about time when they speak. Boroditsky have decided to check it. She invented situation where people would be shown three pictures, one of a man about to kick a ball, one of the same man having just kicked a ball, and the third picture of a different man who is about to kick a ball. Then they were asked which two of three pictures are the most similar. Do the languages that we speak affect on how we think and understand our world? If Indonesians didn’t think about time, what about would they think more, than about tenses? The student was right. The experiment has shown that Indonesian choose the first two pictures, which have the same man in them, while English speakers are likely to identify the two pictures that shown the ball about to be kicked. 
    Thus, the experiment have shown us that for Indonesians is more important to distinguish subject and they don’t care about time, while English have many structures of tenses in their language and that’s why they think about time. We can see how different native speakers of two different languages can have completely different thoughts and imagination depended on language, which influences on their minds. It is the main idea of Boroditsky’s research. This theme takes a place in all her experiments. She tries to explain all over the world that it would be better if we had explored different people depend on their languages too, not only depend on their age, social status, sex and etc. I am interested in such researches because I see the future benefit for people and science. I think psycholinguistics and neurolinguistics can open new possibilities for the study of the human mind. We as linguists must help each other with experiments and works. In future these works will be useful for people. 
