In this essay I would like to discuss the level of understanding between people, one of the problems Steven Fry talks in his program 'Gender language' about. 
The leader opens the subject of how our backgrounds, for example, stereotypes and circle, influence the way we express our thoughts. The most obvious case is misunderstanding between a male and a female. Fry gives quite entertaining cases at which both men and women always laugh a lot but these ridiculous situations really happen. For instance, a woman tells a man that she is not upset while she is, however, the guy does not even suspect that the girl wants him to take care of her and vice versa. Whether we try to be polite or show that we are all-sufficient and able to manage everything ourselves, it is all about the habit (or even the tendency) of hiding the real meaning and this deportment is common for both sexes. That is why we do not divide society into two groups - those who consider themselves as men and - those who consider themselves as women; we have a mixture of people who sometimes hide something and sometimes stay sincere.
Maybe, it seems that we nearly have the solution - if a person stays candid all the time then nobody will be confused by phrases with two ways of reading. However, some cases are still not under our control because the understanding of polysemantic words and abstract notions are based on the context and at the same time various from person to person. Therefore, when a man makes a declaration of love, it is possible that his set of feelings differs from his beloved's one. What can he do? Can he list his feelings? If he does it, his girlfriend could still have her understanding of trust or devotion which differs from his own. And even artificial languages where one word has only one meaning could not help them as the perception of people are different. 
To conclude, I would like to use a famous phrase "We never understand each other completely" but I believe the world is so various and attractive because of it: we are so different and we can give each other something endlessly. Therefore, our problem turns into a thing which makes our lives more interesting.   
