
The differentiation between homonymy and polysemy has always been vague as well as the criteria for distinguishing these notions.

In the article "Homonymy and polysemy; Lexical and grammatical ambiguity", John Lyons studies these two concepts - homonymy and polysemy - and explores whether they could be completely differentiated.

First of all, the author casts doubt on the traditional definition of homonymy. Then he defines what homonymy is and gives the main criteria for absolute and partial homonymy. Thereafter, Lyons describes polysemy and makes an attempt to distinguish these notions.

First, in order to make clear what homonymy is, Lyons gives the definition of this concept and establishes two types of homonymy: absolute and partial. Furthermore, the criteria for both types are understandably described. Also, the examples on the homonymy are remarkably detailed. In addition to this, the article is written in a sufficiently simple and intelligible language. Thus, it may be supposed that this article is for an unprepared audience.

Nevertheless, there are several criticisms that could be offered in order to improve this article. First, the author starts the article with the reference to the previous chapter and with illustrating the notion of homonymy, however, without a clear definition it might not be understandable for an unprepared audience. 
Besides, though there are a considerable number of examples, the author does not observe any other languages in the work. Thus, the problem of ambiguity in different languages is not explained. Second, the author has not provided enough information about the notion of polysemy and difficulties with distinguishing one notion from the other. Whereas, the criteria for absolute and partial homonymy are accurate, the criteria for the difference between homonymy and polysemy are not completely clarified. For this reason, the main point of the article is vague.
Moreover, the article does not have any references to the previous research on the same subject.

Leaving aside the above criticism, the article is well structured and written in a proper style. The problem itself is difficult to be solved, therefore, the article still leaves more questions than answers. 


