                              Аrchitecture is the mother of arts.
    The word ‘architecture’ has Greek roots. It means ‘the principal builder’. People call architecture - “mother of arts”. I think it is a great idea, because architecture includes history, beauty, and exceedingly difficult thoughts on how something can be built. On the one hand, architecture exists like art, on the other hand, it gives us useful constructions to live in. In my opinion, architecture is art for life. It is useful art. Architecture is art which open for all people. Everyone can see artwork.
     Among the variety of artistic muses, or features of architecture, the great Roman architect and "the father of architecture” Vitruvius defined three parts: "the durability, usefulness, and beauty." It is an old thought but a correct and clear one for us. And we can see that no modern society can exist without architecture, and just as in old times, we want to see the same three main parts: durability, usefulness, and beauty.  
     The styles of architecture change according to latest technical features and people’s tastes. In different parts of the world we have «wonders of the world». Historical buildings show us how our ancestors looked at this world and help us to learn history of the area around these buildings.  The good architect must think about all details and about the whole image of the building what he wants to build. And after years of hard work we can see a great creation and it is so wonderful. 
    I wonder how ancient people could build such gigantic constructions and how architects could design buildings without computers and other technical devices back in those times. It's incredible.  Architect, in my opinion, difficult and nervous profession, especially architect in old times. It was people with rich imagination and clever head. Even now, we remember their names. Architects who created palaces and cathedrals, they stayed in our memory. We heard about them on historical lessons at school. They are famous people. Architecture is art and hard work that can tell us a beautiful story and plunge us in history. Only now you stood outside and after one second you enter in ancient temple, it is feeling which you can’t explain. You see ornate ceiling and imposing columns and your heart freeze. 
     Graceful palaces, ancient cathedral and contemporary skyscrapers – it is art and life, it is our nature. That is why we can call architecture «mother of arts». 
