 In modern world people often take risks in their everyday life. They use planes and cars which can crash, they communicate with millions ofother people who can infect them with various diseases etc. These risks are completely inevitable. But if we are talking about taking risks thatcould lead to success (or could not), we are confronted with a dilemma: to take or not to take?From the one hand, taking risks is dangerous. One could risk and lose everything he owned before. For instance, in the story "One thousanddozen" by Jack London the main character sells everything he has and leaves his usual life in order to earn a lot of money by selling eggs togold diggers. When he realizes that the eggs are rotten and that he lost everything, he kills himself. So, one can conclude that it is betternot to risk at all if you want to have a rich, calm and long life.From the other hand, taking risks is an essential part of success achievement. If one takes a risk, there are two ways of sequence of events: hewill success or he will fail. On the contrary, if one does not take a risk, there are no chances that he will success. So, if one's aim is to besuccessful, it is completely necessary for him to risk because success is impossible without risk.For example, an American sportsman Richard Fosbury invented a new way of jumping because the old one was not convenient for him. It was a hugerisk to propose his own way instead of the one which was traditional and which had been used during a long period of time before by thousands ofsportsmen. He could be mocked at and he could fail all the competitions because of the "incorrectness" of his jump. But he dared to showeverybody his way and he succeed. Now his name is world-known and the "Fosbury-flop" is used by all of the sportsmen in different countries.To conclude, I can say that if the person wants to be successful, he have to take risks: good luck will never come to him and knock at his doorif he makes no efforts. Otherwise his life will be calm and stable, but not successful at all.