First of all, we need to describe an evil character. Stereotypically, it is some kind of mad man, often with ugly appearance and some traits most people do not have. He has no particular reason for most of his actions, and they are always explained as "moves to achieve his goal". It is, in fact, quite interesting for me, since most of the goals are either too stupid for a man (like, world domination) or too OCD'd for a normal man (like, killing Superman). Most of the time it is absolutely clear that the character is evil - he does things the others don't. And if it is not clear - it is because he is hiding his true nature and he will show it later. Even murderers and robbers in criminal stories are chaotic evil - they perform brutal actions just to achieve some dirty goals. 
Most of the writers do that just to prevent associations between evil heroes and readers. Nobody would like to find out that he looks like a tyrant or merciless killer. That is why you rarely meet really interesting characters, whose actions are thought-provoking. And I sincerely regret that such a tendency is met amongst the writers. Why can't an "evil" person do his deeds for the greater good, like Robin Hood? Or, for example, rob banks to save his family? Why do we always judge characters in a straight way? That is a miracle for me.
North Korea, Pyongyang - socialistic miracle.
We arrived this morning by and old IL-62 from China, and are now staying in a hotel in Pyongyang. As you all possibly know, there is no tourism in North Korea, so the hotel has neither a name nor rating. But I must note it is quite cozy and comfortable.
The journey began at the airport. Frontier guards took all the mobile phones, but, surprisingly, let us leave our notebooks and other gadgets (most shocking was that they let me keep my camera.  We were given a guide (who knew English quite good), but, in fact, it felt more like he was a guard. And the socialistic reality was the thing to guard, not us. 
The bus route seemed to be planned. No ugly one-storeyed barracks in sight, everything was built-up with high-rises and concrete walls… even though you could clearly see, that behind them hide blocks and quarters of low gloomy huts and houses. 
Marzia and I were  quite embarrassed by behaviour of locals. Looks like foreigners are like black sheep here, and all people were staring at us taking a stroll from bus stop to our hotel. I felt being convoyed. 
Now we're in our hotel rooms, not allowed to go outside the building. I think, our guides were instructed to show us only the best places and things, and the whole trip is like show-off. Even the food isn't awful and quite good - lots of rice, though, but still, not the worst.
Tomorrow we have a view trip and visit Kumsusan Memorial place (as I was told). We also go there by metro, and that makes me really excited (I have heard that it is even more impressive than Moscow subway). Stay tuned for more impressions and photos! 
