What do I think about public speaking?
Everyone has had a necessity to make a speech before an audience not even once for a whole life. Some people do not take that seriously; they usually keep calm and look self-confident being listened by a great number of people. Nevertheless, the others seem frequently as scared as they start shaking, stammering and acting like a fool. According to my discouraging experience I would rather relate myself to the second group of people as my public speeches always turn out to be disastrous. That is one of the main reasons why I would prefer listening to speaking. The aim of my essay, on the one hand, is to justify shy people, particularly myself, and, on the other hand, to show their most common mistakes.
First of all, I would like to emphasize that the fear of the stage is a widely spread phobia and it means that the vast majority of all people suffer from it. It's pointless to discuss whether it is good or not but It's important to find the reasons of that fear. There is a common belief that such a phobia is caused by reluctance to look like clown in front of the large public. Why don't people want to look like fools? At the first sight the answer is obvious - cause people are not fools at all. However, there is another opinion I support greatly.
I strongly believe that the people's selfishness is the point. What does it mean? There is no secret that every person is egoistic and eager to show others his good traits of character only. The more intelligent person is the more egoistic he or she is. Although, great intelligence implies doubts in everything including personal mind. Which traits of character will you demonstrate if you doubt whether they are good of not? Because of that appears the lack of self-confidence and consequently fear. I guess many shy people feel and maybe think exactly this way.
Another argument to support modest people is that nowadays people are getting more in different and even embittered because of the stresses and fast pace of life thus it's sometimes hard to gain public's attention and respect. 
Despite the above-stated facts, I would like to argue that the fear of indifferent audience that won't like the speaker is foolish. I suppose that speaker should first present the idea he wants to share and after that himself. As far as I consider audience is not interested in speaker's personality, it's interested in speech. Thus the best advice for shy people will be not to concentrate on their feelings and direct their energy to the idea representation. The best way to make someone believe in your ideas is to believe in them yourself. 
In conclusion I would like to add that speaking skills are very valuable especially nowadays and by its acquiring you may make headway in your career.
