We can see, that throughout the history of linguistics there were a few ways of describing the language structure. There was often a standard grammatical model, created for one particular language, and others grammatical models should have been based on it, even if it is not the best way of describing some language. For example, many modern traditional views on the structure of well-described languages are based on Latin grammar, and the Russian language is not an exception.
But what could we have as Russian grammar if we have tried to describe it in terms of English grammar?
The grammatical structure of Russian language is rather different from the English one. In this essay I would like to look at the verb system.
Traditionally, we differ three tenses and two aspects in Russian. And Russian aspects can be compared with English perfect, continuous and simple tenses. So, we should tell that there are no aspect in Russian and the verbs which differ from each other only by aspect are just different forms of one verb. For example, 'делал' и 'сделал' would be considered as two forms of one verb, the first one would be past continuous and the second one -- past simple. Here is a question: why do we use exactly this prefix for the regular derivation of the past simple, and not one of others? I am not sure that I am right, but it seems to be the most common and the most neutral in its meaning. And what is more, we can form a list of prefixes which are forming non-continuous form with their additional meaning. But why the form "сделал" can't be described as present perfect? In fact, it could be, but it is more likely to describe Russian past passive forms as present perfect. These forms gives the idea of a result, significant for present, much better, I think. Past perfect would be the same as past simple, past perfect continuous would be the same as past continuous. Present perfect continuous would also be the same form as past continuous.
How could we differ present simple and present continuous ? I don't think there would be any morphological difference in Russian, but we can define constructions with 'сейчас' or 'прямо сейчас' as present continuous, and without these words -- as present simple.
And what about future tenses? In that case we can not differ perfect tenses from others, but we still can differ continuous and non-continuous tenses. Analytical constructions like 'буду делать' would be considered as future continuous (or future perfect continuous) and synthetic constructions like 'я сделаю' would be considered as future simple or future perfect.
So, what do we have for now:
Past simple/past perfect: я сделал
Past continuous/past perfect continuous : я делал
Present simple: я делаю
Present continuous: сейчас я делаю
Present perfect: это сделано
Present perfect continuous: я делал
Future simple/perfect: я сделаю
Future continuous/perfect continuous: я буду делать
Of course, this system describes Russian grammar very bad, and that's why we can't really use it, talking about Russian language.
