Do we need "creativity"?
It's often told that creativity is the key to success. If you have a skill like that you will definitely get  prestigious profession and achieve all the goals. Undoubtedly, creativity is like a weighty bonus in all kinds of activities. It doesn't matter what is your job , because in different sides of life, from cooking to working in oil industry, people do need it. But is creativity so indispensible? Can we replace it with other mental faculties?
On the one hand, it sounds impossible. Firstly, when you have an inborn sense of creativity, all the work runs better than without a feeling like that. This is because in a variety of originative activities it's unacceptable to apply constantly the same strategic model. If  so, your work would tend to be  stereotyped pattern.
Secondly, in production area it's always important to reinvent in order to attract consumer's attention. Each of the goods should be different. Each of them ought to have its own distinguishing feature. So, it looks quite impossible to produce unlike goods without any creative sense.
On the other hand, if we don't have a skill of being creative, so what? It can be well replaced (or even excluded) with other types on mental abilities . By that I mean using such things as analytical thinking,   good leader and  organizer abilities. Besides, creativity cannot exist on its own. Anyway, it should be supported by other faculties.
If you are creative enough and don't know how to deal with other sides of life (economical, social, etc.), it would be too hard to promote your idea. As an example  let's take a teenager who  offered people to use bicycles instead of cars. He  can only offer his thought   because he has neverbeen faced with  marketing strategy (to make a proper advertising), sociology (to estimate who and how much will change their seats) and so on. Otherwise , the idea may be lost forever.
In the end, creativity is a unique mental sense which may be replaced compensated by but, thus, it wouldn't  creativity in its pure meaning. The  using ofthis sense depends on the sphere you work in, aims and goals you set . But if a person doesn't have any potentially creative thinking, he can always employ someone who does.


