Nowadays it is quite difficult to imagine the one who haven’t heard of this glorious novel catching people’s attention for more than a century - “The Picture of Dorian Gray” written by Oscar Wilde in 1891. This is the only his novel which turned Wilde into one of the most famous authors of our time. 

The beginning of the story seems to promise us nothing extraordinary and curious: a painter Basil Hallward occasionally meets a beautiful Dorian and, fascinated by his appearance, draws pictures of him. One day he paints a portrait of the lad, which is a perfect piece of art, the best of his works. But for some concealed reason the painter doesn’t want it to be exhibited. What secret does the mysterious picture hide? The portrait of Dorian becomes the reference point of all what happens in the novel.  

But another Basil’s friend, Lord Henry, wants to get acquainted with Gray too. And this completely changes both Dorian’s and Basil’s lives. Since that the plot of the story is not a straight line, but a curve with many twists and unexpected turns. 

Oscar Wilde creates the main characters of the book (especially Gray) like a good psychologist. He reveals all the demons inside Dorian and makes it not at once, but gradually, so that the book remains gripping till the very end. At first glance I really felt for Dorian, but the more the plot untwisted, the more Gray terrified me. Oscar Wilde wrote in one of his letters:”Each man sees his own sin in Dorian Gray. What Dorian Gray’s sins are no one knows.  He who finds them has brought them”. This saying can be proved by the fact that in “The Picture of Dorian Gray” the sins of Dorian aren’t mentioned directly. 

What makes the plot naturally gripping is the mystic. Wherever Dorian appears the secrecy follows his steps.  A sequence of peculiar, unfortunate events and rumors follows him and influences the lives of all who happen to get on his way. It is remarkable that Wilde recounts Gray from many people’s points of view, but they all (maybe, except Henry) fail to define who Dorian is inherently. 

“The Picture of Dorian Gray” is not only a thrilling novel with well-written characters – it is called “the manifest of Aestheticism”. Lord Henry enthralls Dorian by his hedonistic worldview. Henry reminds me of a scientist who is diligently and patiently observing his experimental, but with some hidden, only partly scientific, intentions. Had Henry even wondered that the ideas and ideals of life he told Dorian about would have such effect? For me it is left obscure, like the inner motives of Lord Henry. 

The relationship between Gray, Lord Henry and Basil is not the common one. Oscar Wilde wonderfully portrays what sometimes happens when two people have influence on the third one.  Basil is precisely the opposite of Henry, and in him the pure admiration, friendship and the strength of art is embodied.  But Basil is not the kind of personality who can stand against the influence of Henry on Dorian. The youth, the beauty, the inner will to explore the world, to reveal and discover all the laws of Time, Life and Passion – all this inclines Dorian towards following Henry’s outlook on life. 

The style of the book is also worth being pointed out. The background of the novel doesn’t impose on the reader – it is softly following the events of the story and doesn’t burden the reader with redundant details, but on the whole intensifies the impression. Much more attention is paid to the characters, which are written plausibly and vividly.

The strongest point of this haunting book is that it is neither a morality nor a revelation of people’s sins. It seems to me that the real purpose of “The Picture of Dorian Gray” is to encourage one to think of his own life, which one day will come to an end. Although the ideals of Aestheticism are not supported in the novel, they make the book thought-provoking: why don’t we really enjoy our youth and possibilities but recollect it suddenly when it’s too late? Why people tend to take the beauty of our everyday life for granted? Oscar Wilde creates a world where art is not just a way to depict reality, but it becomes reality itself. 

The description above seems quite complicated, though the book itself is very easy to read and the style is really enjoyable. I would strongly recommend ‘The Picture of Dorian Gray”, as anyone will certainly have something to think about after having read this fascinating piece of literature.
