“The Old Man And The Sea” by Ernest Hemingway 
Review by Nastya Melnik

“The Old Man And The Sea” is a novel written by Ernest Hemingway in 1952 and it’s a final work published during his life. In 1954 the author has won the Nobel Prize for Literature for this work. Living in Florida and Cuba, Hemingway had much experience of fishing and it provided plausibility to his descriptions of Cuban life near the sea. 
This novel told us about old Cuban fisherman, Santiago, his love to the sea and desire to live. The time period of the act is nearly thirties years in the twentieth century. For eighty-four days he sets out to the sea with his young friend and mate, Manolin. But days passes and nothing is caught and for this reason Manolin’s parents do not let him to waste his time working with the old fisher. The old man decides to try his fortune again but this time alone with himself. He spent a few days in struggle with a huge marlin and finally he caught it. The old man returns to home but not in triumph: while he is attaining his house sharks smells blood and eats the meat of fish leaving only a skeleton that the fisher presents Manolin. Or maybe this is already a great victory?

Even the narration is third-person there is a great amount of fisher's own thoughts, caused by his desire to live, to live in accordance with nature, to strive for this life. In this novel, unlike the most of previous author’s works, the main character is a part of this tremendous and wonderful world. 
The book is light and easy to read and the plain is a bit dull and eventless. But even a charged movement wasn’t the main aim of author it certainly lives up to all the hype: reading this book I’ve been living the life with the old man.
If you are not good at fishing and it’s not the most interesting theme for you, it doesn’t infer that this book isn’t your kind of thing. Each page of this novel is charged with deep vital questions and this work is really thought-provoking. 
“A man can be destroyed but not defeated” – these words project the character of the old man and the overall theme of the novel. The old lone man shows us see neither despair nor debility. Hemingway could keep in his character power of spirit and love at the same time.

This book is about a victory, primarily over yourself. It is about belief: young boy is not only a great help to the fisher but also a friend, he is afraid to lose their friendship and in fine he is hunging on to the old man all day. Marolin promises him to fish together notwithstanding his parents’ ban. 

Here we can see the parallel between the sea and our world. Big fish is an objective correlative of the old man’s lifework destined by God on the one hand and of the Saviour who dies for us and revives on the other one. The fish and the old man aren’t enemies for each other, moreover, there are friends, but the point of man’s life is to kill this fish and it can’t be otherways.

«And what beat you, he thought. "Nothing," he said aloud. "I went out too far."». Yes, he is too far, but he manages to win a struggle, to return, to improve himself and the others his own importance.

 In the light of the above, I can truly write “The old man and the sea” down as a brilliant masterpiece not only of American culture but even of world classics which is bound to be read by everyone. 
