The world we live in today is highly standardized. Education systems in all developed and developing countries are very well-structured. However, some people believe that curriculi and plenty of rules to follow can only lead to life of obedience and conformity.

I personally think that education systems we have (and always have had, in fact), with their strict rules and curriculi, have nothing to do with conformity and aren't its cause. First of all, is it even possible to have any other kind of education system apart from highly standardized one with testing and state exams which are obligatory to pass to graduate? Doubtfully. Absence of rules and conventions would lead to chaos both in education system itself and also the whole life of society. Rules bring everything to order. What's important is that integration between students from different universities (especially located in different countries) would be merely possible without curriculi and exams. Similarity between education systems in various regions is the reason why we can have students' mobility today. Secondly, standardized testing doesn't only serve to reveal students' potential and check their knowledge but it's also one of the ways to systematize the information they get. Preparing for the exams helps to clarify some material as students simply have to know it well to pass. Thirdly, when you study at school or university where it's all up to curriculi, nobody still can prevent you from learning something on your own. Especially today, when such source as the Internet is available, you can get to know everything about anything you want. You can also take extra courses, have a personal teacher and much more. The point is, nothing prevents you from being creative. If you're too bored with what you have to do at school or university, you can drop out and work on your own projects only. But that doesn't mean education system is bad or doesn't serve people's needs. The last but not the least, conformity is in some sense an individual's own choice: only when you agree to conform it happens. If rules of education system are too strict and built a framework around you — don't follow them. This is a valuable lesson of thinking outside the box: when you know there are rules and you're aware of what these rules are, you want to broaden your own horizons and try to do something more than just to fit system's requestments. At the same time , for all those who don't want to improve themselves much curriculi and testing is the way to get proficient in some scientific field and get a good job.

To summarize, education systems just have to be based on curriculi and obligatory standards in order to prevent chaos, but also exactly from these kind of systems benefit the whole society and each of its individuals in particular.
