If I am asked to imagine present day life without cell-phones, I will not be able to do it. Mobile phones have become an indispensible part of people's life. However cell phones can be both effective and disruptive as well. In order to answer the question whether their use should be restricted or not arguments for and against mobile phones will be discussed in my essay.
First of all, mobile phones undoubtedly led us to progress in business via streamlining decision making. For instance, in big cities people tend to spend great amount of time in traffic jams. This valuable time can be devoted to business telephone negotiations. And many top-managers never lose this opportunity, because time is money. 
Secondly, mobile phones help to stay in touch. They shorten distances between people who live in different countries and what is more, cell-phones ease life for disabled people. For example, a person who is not able to move for some reason can still keep in touch with his/her friends and relatives. With no difficulty disabled people can ask for urgent help or to buy some medicine. 
Moreover, most parents use cell-phones to control their children and to know where youngsters spend their spare time. Furthermore, cell-phones left inside a car help to find this car if it is stolen. This method is widely used in my country (in Russia), where such crimes are committed rather often.  A cell-phone is left in a boot of a car, so that criminals cannot know about it, but the police will find such car during a day. 
Thus, there is no doubt, cell-phones make a positive impact on people's lives. But there are some reasons why they still should be restricted.
Firstly, cell-phones usually are distracting. As for me, I cannot fulfill serious tasks in my work if my mobile-phone always rings. It is difficult to concentrate on anything. Hence, people who need to be accessible at any time become nervous. I have heard that some employers force their employees to carry mobile-phones everywhere, even to WC or to canteen. I reckon it is awful.
Secondly, medical surveys have proved that cell-phones harm our health. Constant use of mobile phones leads to immune system disruption. Radio waves influence our brain not in a positive way at all.
Even though society cannot do without cell-phones, they should be restricted. In cinemas and theatres ringtones disturb spectators and actors. At lessons cell-phones distract attention not only of students but of teachers also. During business meetings if more than two people participate, ringing cell-phones are considered to be offensive for the rest of the participants. I think, in recreation places where people relax in quite atmosphere cell-phones should be restricted. The same is with hospitals, where people need peace to recover. Moreover, regulations of usage mobile phones in social places like hospitals, schools and universities should be supported by penalties, if the rules are broken.
To sum up, I am convinced that despite all conveniences that cell-phones give people, their use should be restricted by regulations and penalties for the sake of respect to people and their desire to relax. I hope I have managed to prove my point of view in my essay.
