Nowadays there are many types of schools, and in some schools or classes pupils are gathered according to their academic abilities, in others pupils with different levels of intellect study together. Each method has its advantages and disadvantages and people all over the world have a strong dispute about which one is better.

One of the benefits of the approach which supposes that classes should consist of student with the same level is that there will be no time wasted on repeating the same things twice or even more. When pupils are almost similar in their academic abilities then a teacher doesn't have to worry that some students  may not understand lectures and given materials as fast as others whereas these others students would feel completely bored. All students are equally strong or weak, and this means that lessons and homeworks would be interesting for everyone. 

However, this benefit may be reconsidered as a drawback among those who believe that students shouldn't be selected by their level, because the equality of students' abilities may lead to their indifference in studying. They may feel safe and comfortable in their so called close group, they don't have to prove that they are better than others or try harder. On the other hand, in groups where levels vary, weaker students tend to study more in order to catch up with a group and stronger students don't want to lose their superiority so they have a great stimulus to study too. 

Having said that, I still believe that this method is less effective because a teacher cannot explain the same thing again and again even if it is somteimes still not clear for everyone. So that, weaker students have gaps in their knowledges while the cleverest have to repeat the same things instead of learning something new. Another point is that some weaker students even don't try to work harder which makes a studying process more complicated

All in all, I think that it is more convenient to form the classes according to students' level, when this level is more or less clear. So, the first seven or eight years different students may study together and prove that they are determined and good enough to form a better group and then divide them in these level-based classes which will be fair enough for everybody.
