To begin with, range of public services differs from country to country. There is an opinion that everyone should be involved in mandatory public services while others reckon that mandatory public services derogate from people's right for free choice. To find a definite answer to this complicated question all pros and cons should be considered via reasoning and exemplifying.
In my native country-in Russia- the only kind of obligatory public service is military service for men who reached military age. Guys who failed to be accepted to University (high school) in 18 years old or those who have already  finished high school are obliged to be involved in Russian Military Force for 2 years or for 1 year respectively. The only way to escape from call-up or to get determent is to have serious health problems or two babies of no more than two years old.  For the reason that conditions of living in Russian Military camp are awful many guys decide to walk over the call-up committee via some illegal methods. I cannot say that it is decent to escape from call-up but many of guys do not have another way out. 
On the one hand, military service helps a young boy to become mature, learn to defend his Motherland in case of a war, to be disciplined and to keep fit. This skills and habits will surely be useful in future life. From the political point of view, compulsory military service strengthens the power of any country. On the other hand, mandatory service violates rights of a human-being. Supposing a guy wants to dedicate his life to science of big sport and has all necessary bias towards it, why should he spend precious time on military service, while he can serve his country in another way?
In Israel not only men but also women must serve in the Army. From the political viewpoint, it is logical for the country with little population and not vast territory. But still it is against people's right for free choice.
In Germany it is possible to choose between 9 month military service in Bundeswer (German military Forces) and the same period of social work in charity organizations or organizations helping elderly people. To my mind, not to prejudice person's rights there should always be an alternative to choose.
In some countries, for instance in Africa, medical service is compulsory for citizens who have got medical education. The reason is quite clear: medicine level is low in African countries. So, to change situation for better government decided to make medical service mandatory for alumni with medical education. The same is with countries with poor ecology. All citizens are obliged to get involved in public organizations struggling for nature preserving.
To sum up, of course any mandatory service violates rights of an individual to pursue daily activities, but we are all members of a society and should serve it, by helping elderly or sick people, preserving environment and sovereignty of native country. I am strongly convinced that a human-being should take part in social services but the conditions of public service should also be humane.
