      Globalization is the most important thing in our days. The processes of globalization are constant and even irreversible today. Globalization is an economic social cultural integration. Can we say that it is good or bad? No. Different people have different opinions. We can only compare some views and construct our own opinion.
      Firstly, people say that globalization is the process of the development of the world in a good way. They compare globalization with evolution and explain that synonym for globalization is progress. Big companies cooperate with each other and open subsidiaries all over the world. It means that new vacancies for unemployed emerge every day. People have opportunities for working in big companies and for maintaining their families. Another one peculiarity of globalization is speedup of life rhythm. The distances among countries shorten and we can think calmly about the flight from one country to another only for a couple of days. Also, culture of one country get closer to culture of another. You do not need to go to Uzbekistan for tasting pilaf, for example, you can taste it in Russia. Naturally, I do not promise you that it will be original pilaf like in Uzbekistan, but in fact, you can taste it. And it is great that we can touch the culture of another country. This goal was pursued by Alexander the Great. He dreamed that once different people and different countries would mix with each other. 
       On the other side, we can see that globalization has a good effect only on economy in big developed countries, while economic situation in poor countries stands on the dead point and sometimes even gets worse. People emigrate from their poor country and work in another. At the same time, they earn less money than people who live in that country and workers from this developed country lose their jobs. Locals do not agree with it but can’t do anything. And also culture has changes. People have forgotten their roots. And it is so sad. Traditions and customs are being lost.  
     In conclusion, we can say that globalization is the process which can have positive and negative sides for different countries and cultures. Personally for me, as a linguist, globalization is a bad thing because this process imposes a popular culture to other countries and blurs the boundaries between people and languages.
