The development of information technology nowadays influences our lives deeply and lets us do a lot of things which were previously considered to be absurd or impossible. However, as soon as staying in touch with other people wherever they are or collecting or submitting any data became not tales but the reality of life, working outside the workplace is now also not just a fantasy. Whether it is a good thing to be practice is another question and we’ll discuss it right now.
	An obvious benefit of this modern mobility is that while having any troubles with getting to your workplace you are still able to do your job properly (unless it’ is a physical or practical job which is not connected to the information but comes to making something with your own hands). Your job nowadays can even not oblige you to go out of your room at all. It can be incredibly useful for people who have any physical difficulties or who have to stay home for family or other private reasons; for those who live far from city centres and for whom the road can be difficult or far; finally, it’s a perfect dream of all lazy persons. Some jobs are just so simple that requiring getting to the workplace would be absolutely needless (retyping articles or making the translations, for example). But even if person is normally obliged to be present at their workplace, some unexpected life circumstances can suddenly make him or her go somewhere or take care of someone, etc. In this case an opportunity not to quit their working process is very useful for them. In addition, some persons can simply improve the quality of their work staying at home, because of an opportunity of not being disturbed by anyone and of easy concentrating in peaceful and comfortable circumstances.
	However, the drawbacks should also be mentioned. First, an opportunity to continue working while travelling makes it possible for employers to ask employees to stay in touch during their vacation; but in order to feel good and to improve the quality of their work it is absolutely necessary for a person to relax for some time and not to care about anything. Second, going to your workplace makes you move more or less at least twice a day, change the circumstances and meet other people, while sitting in the same room all day long can just cause health problems, forgetting such minuses as lack of communication, decreasing the number new contacts which could be useful for you, and sometimes getting through boredom to depression.
	Whether advantages of this modern mobility outweigh its disadvantages depends strictly on the concrete person and their own situation. As for me, I prefer working at my workplace, because the circumstances there help me to concentrate properly and therefore do my job well. However, too often in our lives we are not even asked about our own preferences, so very often I have to work at home as everybody does.
