Some people think that animals can be used for benefit of human, but others believe that animal's right should be protected.Nowadays, there are a lot of organizations which try to prevent people from doing harm to nature. One of the main spheres of their activity isthe protection of animals. At the same time there are some people who are convinced that the humans do not need to constrain their needs andthat they can use everything which the nature gives them.First of all, these people claim the right of the humans to use animals for their benefit because of physical and mental advantages of thehumans over the animals. According to them, the creature which is more intelligent has a right to use others and even to kill them.But I could say that, assuming that the humans are the most intelligent creatures on our planet, it is their duty to use their power in a properway. It is also their duty to take care of other creatures that are less intelligent. The proper usage of the power would prove humans'intellectual advantage, while extermination of animals would be, on the contrary, a proof of their mental weakness.Secondly, some people appeal to others to enjoy their lives, to use nature (particularly animals) and not to worry about anything. They explainthat in the modern world there is no way to avoid using animals completely, so the attempts to protect some of them are in fact pointless.Thereby, it is more reasonable not to carry about nature problems at all.I have to agree with the fact that, anyway, our life in the modern society is inevitably connected with doing harm to the nature. People eatmeat and they wear the clothes made of fur. Surely, there are some vegetarian among people, but for some people eating meat is completelynecessary. However, we should remember that the nature's resources are not endless. If we keep on killing the animals without a stop, there willbe no animals at all on our planet soon.In conclusion, I can say that although it is difficult not to do harm to animals at all, it is necessary to be aware of all the consequences andto try to minimize this harm and use our power to protect and save them.