A historical novel “Between of shades of gray” is one of the most impressive books I’ve ever read in my live. The debut story by Ruta Sepetys is written in easy language, but the plot is much more complicated. That makes the book in a page-turner. Readers should be grateful for such feeling that you can’t put the book away. This story was lightweight If there wouldn’t be inserts from the memories. Although sometimes it disturbs you from the sense when the sub-plot appears unexpectedly.  However, It needs a lot of time to analyze the plot completely and stop thinking about the characters and their life. Ruta Sepetys takes readership to the unbearable travelling evocated with help of Lithuanians, who participated in information gathering.Why unbearable? Because only few people can stay strong and straight after events that key character – Lina Vilkas – came across with. 
Vilkas family had been living in peace and harmony. 

Everything goes right. Lina, 15 year-old student, was supremely talented artist and her brother Jonas was a usual boy living in happy family. They had had no troubles before one night NKVD officers took them away to the camps: father in a prison camp, others in a work one. Each next page shows the increasing indescribable characters despair. Officers prohibited to the mother going with her children. She was forced to give them her expensive jewelry to solve this case.

I highlight two parts of story that are really hard to read. The first is about period while characters were carrying to the Syberia by train. Every word in the description of newborn and his mother death provides readers with chilling horror. However,all the people had a hope that one day they would return home. Lina’s mother had new clothes in case it would be truth. Unfortunately, clothes remained unnecessary. The second hard part is the last in the book. Poor, hungry and affected children stayed alone without parents in such a severe world. Their mother died because all the food and water, all she could, she had given to her children. Lina slept behind body of her dead mum. Since that she has become the main member in her little family consisting of her and Jonas.
  
Nonetheless, author didn’t forget about pure and long life love. Andrius and Lina fell in love, but firstly Lina’s attitude to him was negative. After amount of occasions,(such as when Lina said that he and his mother are traitors and when Andrious  stole an important document from NKVD table for Lina) Lina and Andrious had became inseparatable in eternal hunger and sorrow place. 

To conclude, I would like to say that there is an enormous quantity of books, but hardly any of its influence our world perception. This book remains in my soul for the rest of my life.
