Citizen journalism versus blogging
If you want to be taken seriously, act like a grown-up.
Now that the use of the Internet is common practically in every field of activity and professionals have to share the space with amateur enthusiasts, we can understand that journalism definitely could not avoid this fate. Some people don't see any difference between so-called citizen journalism and just blogging. However, having looked through one of the sites connected to citizen journalism, you can easily make out the reasons the society divides them and online blogs into two different groups. 
The most important difference between citizen journalism and blogging is that bloggers mostly make up their usernames, while 90-95% of citizen journalists use their real names. It may not seem that important fromthe first look, but we should understand what responsibility comes with such bravery. While many bloggers think they are free to write whatever they want, while they can hide behind different nicknames and pseudonyms, amateur journalists have to face the full responsibility of what they write and how they write and be ready to deal with all the possible consequences in their real life. 
Also, the sites these journalists use for their writing purposes usually have the policy of self-cleaning, so a lot of hot topics and controversial issues can be discussed without further aggression from the readers or government and administrative sources. The society of citizen journalists is a group of amateurs that are eager to learn from each other, they tolerate each other and, of course, they try to do their best to keep a reputation of bias-free and adequate informational source. So a direct, hard offence or sheer provocations are rarely to be seen there. However, we cannot say the same about blogs and bloggers. Of course, it all depends on a person, and there are bloggers that respect others enough, but this is not a common rule. Their posts can also be really rude, provocative, offensive, and, in fact, nobody can judge bloggers for that.
Finally, we get to the point that explains everything - the contrast between public and personal. No matter how popular one's blog may be, no matter how professional-like a blogger may seem, his Live Journal (or whatever else) still remains to be his personal space, where the only opinion that counts is his own. Citizen journalism is a completely public thing, and while it differ  a lot from the mainstream media (but this is another topic to discuss), citizen journalists are much closer to the professional ones than to bloggers just because of their orientation on public interests (may not be so common among the professionals) and their responsibility. 
This is why reading blogs, even if there are real news reports or something like this, is mostly considered  as a way to intellectually entertain you, not to get useful information. 



