Review
John Lyons. Componential analysis. In  Linguistic Semantics. Pp. 107-114
The componential analysis has its roots in Trubetzkoy and The Prague School's studies.  But the major breakthrough of the componential analysis occurred with the appearance of Jerrold J. Katz and Jerry A. Fodor's works.  One of the chapters of Lyons textbook Linguistic Semantics is devoted to the componential analysis method, as well as its criticism.
omponential analysis defines the meaning of a word in terms of sense-components or semantic features. As an example, consider the following analysis of the words  "man",  "woman",  "boy" and "girl" in the table below. [MALE] and [ADULT] are considered to be the basic sense-components. The presence or the absence of a component is represented by "+"or  "-", respectively.


The componential analysis has attracted considerable criticism over the years, mainly on the theoretical bases. We argue that while the componential analysis has many unsolved theoretical problems, this approach is well suited for some new areas of linguistics and therefore should not be abandoned.
There are some theoretical issues of the componential analysis to consider.
First, componential analysis has an obvious intuitive appeal. There is no agreement on the best way to decide what sense-components are basic. Therefore, components choice is mostly a random procedure, since it is mainly based on the intuition of the researcher. As a result, the sense-components are too approximate.
Second, some classes of words are not susceptible of analysis into features. For example, there is a class of words that do not seem to have any semantic features, such as the, of, and, ah. The class of abstract words, as "inevitability" or "arrogance", is also difficult to define by the semantic features. Moreover, componential analysis cannot manage contextual and metaphorical effects. Consider: 
(1)A boy is playing with a ball 
(2) Are we going for a pint, boys?1

The meaning of the word "boy" depends on its context. In the first case the word "boy" can be defined by the semantic features [+HUMAN, +MALE, - ADULT], but how does this analysis fits the second case?
A third weakness in the componential analysis is to assume that the basic sense-components are universal.  For instance, it is not clear which one should we specify when we face with two equally plausible components, for instance [MALE] / [FEMALE].
However, even though there are some theoretical issues in the componential analysis, this approach can be successfully applied to some practical problems in linguistics. For example, componential analysis can be used in corpus linguistics, notably in creating semantic annotation. As this approach define words in terms of a smaller set of semantic components, that makes it acceptable for computer to process data,  using simple language of tags.
To conclude, even though there are theoretical weaknesses in the componential analysis method, it requires emendation and revision rather than abandoning, as there are new areas of linguistics where the componential analysis can be applicable.


