Critique 2
Componential analysis.
	In 1950s componential analysis was for the first time used for introducing the meaning of the set of lexemes and became popular in subsequent years. Componential analysis or lexical decomposition is a semantic method of description the sense of a lexeme into its component parts. 
	Componential analysis proposes a clear-cut formalization of word's meaning description. It is based on a compositionality principle, which claims that the meaning of a complex expression is defined by the meanings of its constituent parts and special rules used to combine them. The word or expression is split into universal sense-components, which can construct the sense of expression in any language. These basic elements are related by means of logical operators (negation-operator and conjunction) and several variables. As a result, the expression appears like mathematic equation. In order to illustrate the method of componential analysis in practice, consider an example:
1) "boy"=HUMAN&MALE&~ADULT
2) "give"=(x,(y,z)HAVE)CAUSE
The first lexeme "boy" consists of three sense-components, which means that the word "boy" is a human, male subject and not an adult. The second example provides an explanation of the verb "give", which is interpreted as "x causes y to have z".  
	Componential analysis is appropriate in one application and almost useless for some other purposes, as it has both benefits and disadvantages. In theoretical sphere there are a considerable number of cases where this method fails. First, it does not distinct different parts of speech. Second, componential analysis can not express all meanings of the sense. For instance, colors can not be presented in terms of componential analysis, Notions of colors may be included in basic components, but they are not universal. Questionable situation also appears in metaphor's representation. For example, when a woman is called a "snake" it signifies that the woman is malicious and mean. However, the word "snake" in terms of componential analysis can not represent this sense.
Despite the many theoretical flaws, the method of componential analysis may be successfully used in practical tasks. For instance, it is widely adopted in computer studies, such as the ontology and the semantic annotation. It has already used in Universal Networking Language (UNL), which may be useful for in interlingual machine translation systems and in the information retrieval applications. Moreover, componential analysis was intended to be universal and applied in all languages. This mission accomplishes, as the formulations of the utterance are well understood and precisely formulated in the logic terms, which are user-friendly for machines and programmers.
	To sum it up, componential analysis is a controversial method, which is significant for computer-based aims and not appropriate for theoretical field.
Reference:
John Lyons. Componential analysis. In  Linguistic Semantics. Pp. 107-114.