"Globalization is a wonderful thing, my friend! Humanity made a great step into the future and now we can chat with each other on the mobile phone, book necessary things online, even create our own day plan and track it with… oh, damn, I'm late! I hate this traffic jams! Where is the nearest underground station?!"
It is a quote from a well-known American TV-show "The West Wing". Transport and traffic problems need no introduction - more than 6 billion people face this problem everyday. Why is it so? The answer is simple - they are victims of this wonderful rant called "globalization" as many other people from probably all cities on our planet. And Moscow is not an exception.  
According to recently held researches nearly 10 million vehicles can be found on the streets of our city on weekdays. Such a great amount of cars is accompanied by several problems. The main of them is environmental pollution. Automobiles provide a lot of carbon dioxide which damages not only our health but also destroys nature around us and causes global warming. Ozone layer renews slowly, that is why it is very important to reduce the amount of toxicants. Second important problem is traffic jams. Millions of drivers claim that there is nothing worse in Moscow. Imagine - you have to wake up even hours earlier not to get stuck in traffic. Or you want to go to the country-side on Friday's evening and reach your destination only in the morning of the next day. With Moscow's traffic jams nothing is impossible! Finally, road accidents kill thousands of people every year. Despite all arrangements made, nothing changes - cars smashes, people die. 
What should people do to improve their future life? Governments should revise laws, create new ones in order to limit amount of cars in Moscow. Vehicles must be equipped with special filters, preventing exhaust polluting atmosphere. Scientists have already invented alternative sources of energy, but they need investments to launch them. Another interesting idea is creating special "days without cars", as they are called in some European countries. On such days using cars is prohibited and people have to travel on foot or using public transport. New lines of Underground and new transport roads can solve problem of traffic jams too. Just remember - our future is in our hands. 
