Transport of the future
Transport system is one of the chief problems nowadays. Congestion is increasing and air, water and noise pollution is created as a consequence. People are bored with settled system and are waiting for the significant step forward in technology development. So, what is in store for us in the future?
Approximately, during the next 50 years everything is said to be changed. The completely new types of transport are going to be built. The idea is to harness renewable forms of energy, more efficiently use fossil fuel, increase the speed of different means of transport and introduce newer and more exciting technology. 
There is a number of projects offered by scientists. For instance, a vactrain (or vacuum tube train) that could move at extremely high speeds due to the lack of air resistance. It could be even built deep enough to pass the oceans. Travel through evacuated tubes allows supersonic speed which means you can get from London to New York in less than one hour. However, the main drawback is the financial side. The expenses will be so high that it would be difficult to defray them.
The other interesting project is given by a company called Virgin Galactic which provides space travel within the reach of the general public. The craft will carry five passengers and its planned trajectory will overlap the Earth's atmosphere at 70,000 feet, which will make it sub-orbital journey with a short period of weightlessness. One more invention in the field of aviation is a flying car. It is an aircraft but can also travel on roads giving people an opportunity not to change the transport in case their car is not able to reach the destination.
Unfortunately, many people doubt that all these projects are worth investing enormous amount of money. They think the inventions would be used only by the rich and wouldn't replace the usual transport system. 
On the whole, science is rushing forward and, I'm sure, by the 2050 year new transport system will be introduced. People will no longer suffer from traffic jams and environmental pollution.
