Motion: This house believes, that educational system based on curriculi and standardised testing leads to establishing the system the system of indocrination of the young, which only prepares them for the life of conformity.

Role: Opposition Leader.

Firstly, I would like to slightly determine the motion. What do we  mean, when we say “life of conformity”? Do we mean, that person lose his ability to think and share common ideology? Or we are talking about some norms, which are essential for everyone, to live and be valable in modern culture and modern society. I think, that if we are talking about educational system, the correct statement is second.

Secondly, standardized doesn’t mean completely same for everyone. As for example, I can remember my school, where student could decide, at which level to study any of essential subjects. He couldn’t decide not to study math. But he could change his schedule to study somthing more in advance and study math less if he didn’t need it at the university. Some can say, that that is an examle for the motion. But this system can not exist without standard curriculi, without prewritten study plans. Because if you teach future philosophers math, you have to understand, which topics are essential, and when you teach future mathematicians, you can not avoid some basic topics, which are required to pass standart tests. Any teacher in advanced group wants to give students something from forefront, something, that shows science at modern condition. And this is the freedom, which has to be llimited. 

Finally, I have to mention, that modern educational system is not perfect. And this is great. There is no need to make huge reorganisations, to fix every single problem. Newton’s Third Law says, that for every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction. Teachers, who oppress child’s freedom of opinion, increase their ability to fight for personal view. Awfull standartised textbooks can teach kids to look up information elsewhere, to make an effort to find out something. We should not be affraid, that we will crush talents, because passion can not be crushed, it cannot be limited. 
