The Prestige is probably the most unusual and the most fascinating novel written by Christopher Priest. No surprise, it has been nominated for many prestigious awards such as British Fantasy Award, James Tait Black Memorial, Bram Stoker Award, World Fantasy Award, Arthur C. Clarke Award. Moreover, it has been adapted into movie and shorted by one of the most important Hollywood directors Christopher Nolan.

Christopher Priest is British novelist who is also known for Fugue for a Darkening Island, Inverted World, The Affirmation, The Glamour and The Separation. His main genre is science fiction. Unfortunately, I didn’t have an opportunity to read any of his novels. 

The Prestige tells us about two magicians, who lived in the end of 19th century in England. They were both obsessed with technique of magical performance. But once they had a feud that not only changed their lives, but also influenced lives of their descendants. Both magicians, Alfred Borden and Rupert Angier were trying to expose each other’s technique or to outdo the rival at better performance. They both had diaries where they were describing their emotions to each other and some secrets of their techniques. Each magician had a variant of magical act of transformation. They used different methods and could not figure out or expose method of the rival. Their willingness of victory and glory was so blinding that they both made some unthinkable actions that led to disaster. 

However, beginning of the book takes place in modern time, where their grandchildren Kate Angier and Andrew Westley are trying to uncover the mysteries of the story. They have some unexplainable events in life, somehow connected with their ancestors. As a child, Kate was a witness of death of a little child in the basement where Rupert’s apparatus was held. Andrew, who was adopted in childhood, heard voices of his twin-brother, whom he could not find. 
Many things make this book so gripping and thrilling. Firstly, there are many mysteries from the beginning and they become gradually uncovered during the plot but still with the elements of surprise. Therefore, the end of the book is unpredictable. 

Moreover, the narration is presented as diaries of different characters. It helps to understand inner world and motives of every main character. The rivalry between Rupert and Alfred is both fascinating and scary. It shows how cruel people can be and how many things they can lose in obsession to become famous.  

The thing that also makes the books also unusual is magic theme. The description of magic tricks and backstage life of magicians is quite rare in science fiction and gives this book great advantage. The name itself – The Prestige – refers to the final part of magician act, which usually consist of the setup, the performance and the prestige.

And of course it is charm of style of life in 19th century: theatres, magic magazines, audience, luxurious houses – all these makes picture more vivid. But it can’t be compared with ordinary roman about life of previous centuries because this book has a lot of dark and gothic features. 

The screen version of the book saves the dark thrilling mood and complexity of characters. 

I think this book worth reading whether or not you are interested in magic, because its message is about values in life. Is  the prestige and fame more important than families’ happiness or health? You will surely find an answer in The Prestige.
