Review
John Lyons. Componential analysis. In  Linguistic Semantics. pp. 107-114.
 In the middle of the 20th century a new word meaning description method was constructed, namely componential analysis.  At first its underlying idea was quite popular, but then it was discarded and replaced by other more effective approaches. At the present time it has been reconsidered and become widely used again.
In the chapter Componential analysis in Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction, Lyons defines componential analysis (or lexical decomposition) as a method that "involves the analysis of the sense of a lexeme into its component parts". The meaning of the lexeme is constructed of sense-components ("human", "male" and "adult"), that are linked by operators ("~" and "&"): "boy" = human & male & ~adult. The components are basic, prototypical and nuclear concepts, which are universal for all cultures. It is possible to identify them in lexical structures of different languages. The central principle of componential analysis is compositionality, that is the value of an expression "is fully determined by the value of the components and the definition of the operations by name of which they are combined".
Componential analysis has many theoretical flaws, but at the same time it could be useful for some practical needs.
First, there are some disadvantages connected to the sense-components. In the following example the word 'bovine' seems to be less primitive than 'calf' by itself: "calf" = bovine & ~adult. That is, the lexeme is described by means of more complicated term. Moreover, if we manage to write this definition in Russian, we will be confronted by difficulties with translating the component "bovine" without it losing its universality, because we have to use the sex-marked words коровий or бычий that are derived from корова 'cow' and бык 'bull'.
Second, componential analysis fails to explain metaphors and semantic interaction within expressions and phrases. The analysis of a lexeme is incapable to convey the metaphorical meaning of certain words. No difficulties are supposed to occur if we want to get the meaning of expressions using componential analysis, but the following example claims the opposite. In the expression "she is a good mother" (in other words, she is careful and devoted), it is impossible to attach the lexeme 'good' to the components that compose the sense of 'mother': neither to 'parent', nor to 'female'.
Another minus of this approach is possible inaccuracy of created decompositions. A popular example illustrating componential analysis is the structure of the verb 'to kill': (x, (y) die) cause, - which could be read as 'to cause to die'. The notion 'to cause to die' is apparently broader than 'to kill' and the constructed definition is imprecise and unequal to the actual word meaning.
Componential analysis seems to be inappropriate for those purposes for which other lexical approaches are usually used, such as foreign language learning or lexicography, because its definitions are not comprehensible enough. However, it could be useful for computer directed tasks, such as semantic annotation in language corpora. For instance, sense-component indication like "animal" for an adjective and "feeling" for a noun by word search in a corpus makes it possible to reveal which metaphors associated with animals could be used to describe human feelings.
To sum up, componential analysis has a number of problems regarding the theoretical issues and is incapable to give exhaustive explanations of the words. Therefore, this approach is inappropriate for tasks where semantic distinctions of lexemes and connections between the words in phrase need to be considered, but it is definitely useful for those tasks where the rough picture of a lexeme meaning is necessary.
References:
Lyons, J. (1995). Componential analysis. In: Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction. Cambridge University Press, 107-114.
