№1
The given graph provides information about the arrivals of international tourists in different parts of the world(in North America, Central and Eastern Europe, South-East Asia, Sub-Saharan Africa and South America).

According to the shown information, the number of arrived tourists is very different and depends on the place and on the time. As we can see, the most popular place among  the foreigners is North America, the number of visitors have increased since 1990 till 2000, and decreased a little bit to 2005. However, despite of the fact that in Central and Eastern Europe the number of visitors in 1990 was just 30 millions, it reached the same amount as in North America( around 85 millions) to 2005. In the middle is South-East Asia, it’s number of international arrivals was 20 millions and increased to 50 millions. Besides, the less popular places is South America and Sub-Saharan Africa, theirs amount of arrivals are no more than 20 millions. 

This statistic shows us that in general the number of international tourists arrivals increased from 1990 till 2005.

№2
In nowadays some people has an opinion that their job should be enjoyable rather be well payed, while others believe, that a good salary leads to a better life.

On the one hand, to my mind, if you have a job, you should love it a lot. Firstly, i can say that if any person is keen on his or her work, he or she deffinately will make it better than the person who is not. It is mean that it can help him or her to strive for achievements and may be for a promotion, which leads to a bigger salary. Secondly, i believe, that if the person enjoys his or her job, he or she will always be happy, when he or she come home, this mean that if the person is pleased, he is an optimist and everythig around him will make him happy. But if the person is not keen on it, he or she always will be stressfull and full of negative emotions. So i think that the enjoyable work leads to a better life.

On the other hand, i believe that a well payed, even not loved, job deffinately leads to a better life too. Firstly, i can say that if you don't have enough money, your life will be very complex, it may be like a survival. Secondly, i believe that people who have a good salary can relax more effective, because thay can allow themselves some spa or spending holiday somewhere in foreign countries.

To draw the conclusion, i can say that everyone should choose the most attractive option for him ot her, because each of them leads to a better life.
