Critique.
Componential analysis is a method in linguistics that   formalizes semantic relations between lexemes.  This method gives a description of the lexeme's definition in the following way:   sense of a word is divided into its minimal semantic components.  Componential analysis contains a special system of signs, that help to label the word's meaning to different semantic zones such as 'male', 'female', 'adult' and others. For example, the addition-operator has this symbol - '& '. It can be shown as "boy" = HUMAN & MALE & ~ADULT.
Componential analysis as any method has it's advantages and disadvantages. Think about this situation: English word 'bovine' has two variants of translation into Russian - 'коровий' and 'бычий '; the first lexeme means 'cow', others - 'bull'. It follows that it is impossible to find any basic word, which could express any sense, referring to cow as a kind of animal. Thus, we see the first difficulty - some meanings that define in one lexeme in English language are not equivalent in other languages.
The other problem of this linguistic method is that componential analysis can not be used when we have some   absolutely metaphorical meanings.  For instance, the sense of the phrase 'She is such a cat' could not be divided into simple semantic groups: 'cat' - 'FELINE, ~MALE, ADULT' (we analyze the lexeme 'cat') because the description does not give us any information about any woman's character trait. Plus, there are some complications when componential method can not describe sense of lexemes in   sentences where words are used to the letter. For instance, think about this sentence: 'After that you are not my sister anymore.' Undoubtedly we should divide the lexeme 'sister' into three simple parts: 'HUMAN x SAME PARENTS x ~MALE'.  But, it is not obviously what negation is (which of three basic parts is negated). To sum up, we see that componential analysis does not work anywhere.
However, decomposition into minimal semantic components has some distinct advantages.  If we have a large list of lexemes and we need to work with their meanings, componential analysis will be useful. You will have an opportunity to divide lexemes into rough semantic zones. Also, this method is applicable in the area of computer linguistics, because the analysis has a sufficiently clear system of signs. Computer algorithms works with formulas, so it would be easier for them to use groups of semantic elements rather than dictionary definition. 
In conclusion, we can say that componential analysis in some cases are necessary, because gives us an information of basic sense parts of lexemes. However, we  pay our attention on some situations, when a componential analysis does not work.  