The theory of componential analysis defines the main meaning of words which consists of the logically and epistemologically independent meanings. In the scientific community the theory has been  the cause of many discussions, however, the fact that componential analysis allow to  describe the structural relations that define the meaning of a word was accepted by majority.
	According to the theory of componential analysis, the sense of a lexeme is the product of its components or in another point of view of itsfactors. Combination of such sense-components create a significant number of the meanings, so many words appear. Thus, the combination due to the theory that was formulated in mathematical logic can be described by equations and variables. The relevant descriptions were demonstrated by John Lyons.Firstly, for instance, the sense of "man" is equation with three sense-components "human", "adult"and  "male", on the contrary, the sense of "woman" is combined with "human", "adult" and "female" or supposedly  "non-male". In the equations there are common factors and the factor that distinguishes "man" from "woman". Secondly, variables are used in the theory of componential analysis in order to illustrate the directionality of structural relations and define whether one-place or two-place a relational predicate is. For example, "father" = (x,y) PARENT & (x) MALE, that means "father" has two variables. Furthermore, the theory makes it possible to present hierarchical structure of the sense of a lexeme.  Lyons' example isa formula "x causes y to die" which means the sense of "run".  The hierarchical structure is represented as a mathematical form (x, (y) DIE) CAUSE.In this way, rules of the fundamental mathematic can interpret the equations with sense-components of the meaning of any word.
There are several reasons whythe theory of componential analysis plays important role in formal semantics. The sense-components illustrate the structure of the sense of a lexeme, so, it becomes possible to explain logically the diversity of words. The theory systematizes meanings of words, identifies universal sense-components and potentiates to compare the lexical structure of a word in different languages. Moreover exact science helps the theory analyze accurately and computers make it  solve complex problems. 
On the other hand, in the theory of componential analysis there are some difficult questions to answer. It is hard to decide for linguists what factor is primary. For example, "adult" and "non-adult" are the main factors, on the contrary, there is no "child" as a factor, although "child" is the first stage in human's life. Besides, the theory can not analyze expressions with the figurative meaning such as metaphors, idioms. 
Nevertheless, the theory of componential analysis is an excellent method in order to look into the lexical structure of a word especially nowadays in the age of the computer science. 
It is believed that the theory will be improved in the future and noticed by the linguists and scientific society in the present. As a linguistic theory it is important for linguistics in general.  With precision of mathematics and computer power the theory of componential analysis can make important discoveries in the field of linguistics. 