Writing Task 1

The graph illustrates the comparison between amounts of international tourists arrivals in North America, Central and Eastern Europe, South-East  Asia, Sub-Saharan Africa and South America in a period of time between 1990 and 2005.

In 1990 the amount of tourists in North  America was a little bit over 70 million, while in Sub-Saharan Africa and South America there were less then ten million. However, Central and Eastern Europe and South-East Asia came between them with 30 and 20 million, accordingly. In the following years the amount in all the part of the world increased. In 1995 Central and Eastern European tourism leaped forward and increased by 100%, while in other parts of the world the indexes did not improve for more than 10 million. In the next five years tourism in all parts of the world increased with almost identical speed by more or less 10 million.

Afterwards, the state of North American tourism became worse. At the same time the index of Central and Eastern reached the peak at 90 million, catching up with the North American number. South-East Asian tourism had some improvement as well and got up to 50 million by 2005. Sub-Saharan African numbers raised as well but not more than by 3 million and South-American tourism stayed almost the same. Thus, in 15 years Central and Eastern European tourism improved the most, Sub-Saharan African and South American didn't change much and North American and South-East Asian tourism has noticeably grown.


Writing Task 2


Some people think that if you like your work, the salary is not that significant.  Others believe that money that you get will make you feel better that any job.
On one hand, if you earn a lot of money at your job, you can support your family and buy stuff to enjoy your free time. If your salary is good you probably don’t have to work too much, so you can have some time for spending it and enjoying what you have bought. It seems to be an easy way to live life, raise children and create your own little world full of concerns for family and house.
On the other hand, such life can become very monotonous. One can wake up every morning with the only wish to never leave the house and never go to work again. An average person spends a third of his day working. Which means that if she has a job that she does not like, she spends almost a third of her life doing something against her own will, which inevitably leads to depression and not willing to go to work at all and does not leave any room for enjoying the earned money.
To my mind, it does not have to one way or the other. Every job has routine parts that cannot be avoided, so one should try to find a place where the money is good enough to support herself and a family, maybe something extra for the holidays and a big flat-screen TV, but still a job where she can feel appreciated and useful and where she can do something you like.
To conclude, I would like to say that although salary is, of course, important, it is very hard to work at a job that you do not like, so everyone should always try to find a compromise.
