A critique on "Homonymy and polysemy; lexical and grammatical ambiguity" by John Lyons

Homonymy and polysemy are significant topics in semantics. Both describe cases with wordforms having multiple meanings. The only destinction between them are origins - when they are the same for the described pair, it is polysemy, while homonymy occurs in the opposite situation. However, clear-cut examples of these linguistic phenomena are rare, which raises a generous amount of questions and discussion.
As do all of linguistic terms, homonymy and polysemy can be positioned polarly on a special scale, where each specific case can be placed, respective to both brink points. A significant example is Russian "коса", which can mean "scythe" and "braid". Etymologically, they have separate origins, but the word itself is a derivative from "косой", which means "skew", and both objects, that bear the presented name, appear to have, more or less, such quality. It is why on the scale that was mentioned above we would place "коса" close to the middle. At this rate, division of the notions becomes unnecessary, while scale measurement gets the first argument for itself.
In the chapter "Homonymy and polysemy; lexical and grammatical ambiguity"  from the textbook "Words as meaningful units", John Lyons approaches the stated problem in a less radical way, without proposing such strong resolutions. However, he still acknowledges the absence of any significant border between homonymy and polysemy, and even makes statements, that prove the efficiency of using the scale.
Describing homonymy, Lyons lists the criteria for it, which scatters the notion into several ones. If all the criteria are passed, the case is considered to be absolute homonymy, while if some are left out, it is called partial homonymy. At the same time, there is only a single criterion for polysemy. There are cases, when criteria for homonymy and polysemy are passed at the same time. This makes it possible to include polysemy's criterion into the list of those of homonymy. As the cases would be analysed with all the criterion at the same time, the scalic approach would make perfect sense.
In the chapter, a step is made towards the solution of the homonymy and polysemy problem. Were the author's intentions more radical, the chapter would contain a very close to, if not exactly the same as the one above proposal of a new approach. Over time, it may appear not to be resolving enough, but today may be depicted as a promising one.

