Bridget Jones: Mad about the boy by Helen Fielding
Review by Daria Suslova
Mad about the boy is the third book about Bridget Jones written by Helen Fielding. As two previous books it is written as a personal diary of Bridget and in this diary she describes all things which are happening to her. While reading we just can imagine that it is our notes and that these situations were in our lives. We can feel all her emotions like ours because of the style in which this book is written. 
Story of the book takes place in London, in 2013 and there are flashbacks into 2012. As we can remember, many different social networks are becoming popular in 2012 and the book reflects this part of social life. Bridget opens a twitter account and then quickly gets obsessed with the popularity of her tweets. Sometimes she tries to write clever things and sometimes she feels embarrassed after posting tweets being drunk. Also, with the help of networks she meets a young man with whom she flirts online.
As previous parts (and also amazing movies) this book has a lot of funny moments which can happen with any women. With the help of this character many women learnt how to laugh at themselves and their funny and may be crazy obsessions with dieting, men and attempts of self-improvement. However, the novel has not only funny and humorous parts there are romantic sides of a story and parts that describe her life with two children whom she loves a lot. 
What about the plot, there are some sad news for those, who liked Marc Darcy as Bridget’s husband. However, the novel begins with 50-something Bridget excitement about going out with a younger man, writing a screenplay in addition to being a single mother of two children. She has just recovered from the death of her wonderful husband and she is finally trying to overcome depression and start a new life with a new love. Her plans for self-improvement are very moving because she is desperately trying to be a good mother to her children, even though she'd rather stay in bed being in gloom and eating chocolate ice cream or drinking wine.
I really liked this book because of its humor, characters and their life lines. Some parts are just so funny that you can’t stop laughing out loud and other parts are so nice and touching that you only can read with a smile on your face. Also, it is very interesting to see how the heroine has changed since she was a 30-something woman. I’m endlessly in love with Bridget Jones because she is just that truthful female character with silly acts and self-irony. I think that there is a little part of Bridget in every girl or woman in the world and that’s why these novels are so popular.
If you liked movies about Bridget Jones or you enjoyed reading the first two books, you will absolutely like this one. 
