It is a well known fact that the academic abilities vary throught each person thus some people came to an idea of diving people into groups in such educational institutions as schools, colleges and universities according to these abilities. However, other people argue that the following way of separating people into groups is inapropriate.

On the one hand, the speed of acuiring data of each individual determines the speed of the whole group in general that is why the groups with the highest academical abilities will be the most intelligent and developed ones. Moreover, unequal abilities are condusive to the social segregation among the whole group. Such a segregation undoubtedly leads to the humiliation issues from the side of the more numerous subgroup. In addition, in the entity with slightly the same level of academic abilities no one will suffer from the boredom wasting the time waiting for the others to go through the new material. Eventually, in the group of different abilities the weakest ones would rather not to make any attepts to succed because of the lack of motivation.

On the other hand, the idea of the separating people according to their mental abilities gives an idea of the discrimitation and thus results in humiliation issues among the groups of different levels. More than that, in a group of different levels of development there is a high probability of the consultation cases between the people of different mental abilities what therefore leads to the general decrease of the educational level of the whole group. Last but the least is the fact that the opposites have a sort of a special magnetism among each other.

In conclusion it has to be said that people, whenever they are divided into groups according to their abilities or not, will still distinguish some subgroups or separate individuals inside this group. This fact conserns especially children who seems to be more emotional and fast in their impressions and jugements. I believe that in order to reduce the separation on the group level it is important to have students of the aproximately the same level of mental abilities. The same educational level in a group will force students to move forward and catch up with their classmates. This separation stabely worked and still works in my school with the groups of English classes and I guess that this experience has to be introduced in the whole educational process.
