Componential analysis, also called lexical decomposition, is a method of meaning's description, which involves the dissection of the sense of a lexeme into its componential parts and distinctly illustrates sense relations in the word. Semantic features are illustrated by a group of complementary meanings. Componential analysis was considered a significant invention owing to its ability to exhibit the inner structure of words with logical expressions. It gave an opportunity to unscramble and establish definite relationships between words in language. The notion of competential analysis has long been part of linguistics researches, however the method was regarded ineffective as a consequence of uncovered shortcomings.
	In my opinion, the convenience of componential analysis is a comparatively arguable issue. Componential analysis provides ample opportunities in the field of machine translation and semantic annotation due to its capacity to decompose lexemes into basic sense components. This quality offers the challenge of simplifying operations with the sentence's structure and the opportunity to generate programmes for superior comprehension of human speech. Nevertheless, componential analysis has a considerable number of theoretical flaws related to its incapability to establish the fixed list of elementary sense components and define sense components of certain lexemes, which meanings can be interpreted in dissimilar ways. The specific instances of flaws are presented below.
	First of all, it is impractible to distinguish parts of speech within the bounds of componential analysis. The description of the word consists of sense components, which do not clarify the part of speech. For instance, there is no difference in the structure of sense components of the word "quick" and "quickly". The second weak point of componential analysis is the interpretation of colours. Obviously, "red", "green" and "blue" should be included in the list of elementary sense components. However, it is incomprehensible how to elucidate such colours as "terra-cotta" or "scarlet". There are two ways of decision this problem: either every colour should be included in the list of elementary sense components or all colours should be elucidated in RGB. 
	Furthermore, the considerable amount of words can only be described relatively. For example, it is problematic to give an explanation of the word "tasty", as every person's tastes are dissimilar. Another example is the absence of strict boundary in the words "baby", "child", "adult" and "old man". These definitions depend on the appearance and temper, the century and, ultimately, perception of speaker.
	In other words, componential analysis can be used as a helpful tool in computer linguistics, especially machine translation, and semantic annotation. However, this method has a considerable amount of theoretical flaws which prevented it from extensive usage in linguistics.