Some people believe that salary is the most important consideration when choosing a job or a career, while others believe that the job satisfaction is the most important issue to consider when making these choices. What do you think should be the main consideration when choosing a job or a career path?
In order to ascertain what should be the main consideration when choosing a job or career, firstly, we have to understand the difference between job and career.
Sure enough, that there is a huge difference in the mindset of a person holding a job and the mindset of a person with a career. The major difference between a job and a career comes from how you look at your work and how much you like doing your work.
For example, student get part time job at restaurant or in fashion shop. For him the time spent in restaurant or in shop - is only a job. He is earning some money to pay for education or living expense. 
This part time job is helping him to achieve other goals in his life. For example: to get good education, to support parents, to get accommodation or to buy a car.  And in this case, salary - is the most important consideration when choosing a job.
From the other side the student can work in the restaurant or in fashion shop because he is planning to develop himself in restaurant business or in fashion. And in addition to this work he pursues a degree in restaurant business or in fashion at the university. He moves up the managerial ladder and uses university experience at work. And after graduation he continues working but already as a manager or a buyer. This is the first step to build up a career.  And in this case the most important consideration when choosing a career - is job satisfaction.
I can say that job satisfaction should be the most important issue to consider when you are planning your career. But in some circumstances in our life we have to choose a job with money consideration to pay the bills.
But I believe that a long-run objective when choosing a career should be job satisfaction. 
