In the world of fierce competition taking risk to be successful is a predictable thing. People achieve success in different ways and the risk is one of them.  Some people think that it is acceptable to take risks all the time in various spheres of life. But others think that the risk cannot be justified. 
On the one hand, there are some circumstances where taking risk is the only solution to a problem and there is no other possible way but to take a risk. And in some cases taking risks works. For instance, the film The Pursuit of Happiness, which is based on the true story of Christopher Gardner, describes how he took a risk and could reach his goal. Christopher had a family: a wife and a little son. Once he took a risk and spent all family's savings on unprofitable equipment. After that his family could hardly make both ends meet. Soon his wife left him because of running into debt. Christopher and his little son became homeless. Gardner decided to take a risk again. He agreed on unpaid internship work as a brokerage in a firm, which promised to employ only the one trainee at the end of the internship. He worked hard, starved and sometimes spent night in a bathroom at a subway station. However, in the end Chris had a position in the firm and went on to form his own multi-million dollar brokerage firm. It is not a secret that in our everyday life there are so many stories like that one. Such people do not afraid of looking problems straight in the eye and taking risk for their own good.
On the other hand, taking a risk is not a necessary thing at all. There are a great deal of better decisions besides taking risks. From the practical angle, taking a risk may lead you to the failure. For example, it is a well-known fact that many developing companies are taking risks all the time to reach success: they invest money in unprofitable organizations, run unpredictable projects, etc. because such a business is rather unpredictable and you never know how economy will go on. However, not always can this strategy be useful in getting success. There are lots of examples when a good stable company took a risk and few years later put out of business at all. In such a case a company has to have a better economic strategy than just taking risk.
All things considered, I think that there are advantages and disadvantages in taking risks. I cannot accept just one point of view. The decision depends on the situation. At first, it is better to compare all pluses and minuses and only after that to make the right choice. Anyway, there is a great amount of differences among life situations, consequently, the decision which is wrong in one problem, can be a better one in another.