Aldous Huxley, Brand New World
Have you ever thought about the future? How do you imagine it? I am absolutely sure you see the world of future as a peaceful, calm place, where all people live in harmony. But, does such place really suit chaotic, mercurial human nature? This question is the one Huxley wishes to rouse in your thoughts. Let us take a closer look.
Aldous Leonard Huxley is an English writer of the first half of XX century (26 July 1894 - 22 November 1963).  Brave New World is one of the most notable Huxley's works, listed 53 in "The Top 100 greatest novels of all time" and 5 in "100 best English-language novels of the 20th century". It was written in 1931, by the time when Aldous has already established himself as a social satirist. Brave New World was inspired by utopian works of H.G. Wells, such as A Modern Utopia. But, even if Huxley was trying to make parody on Wells, it is quite clear that his ideas carried him much far away than he intended. George Orwell noted, that Brave New World was partially inspired by Evgeny Zamyatin's We.
The plot takes place in a distant future, AD 2540. The world is united as "the World State", a peaceful community where happiness was achieved by use of genetic engineering and special upbringing methods. People are artificially grown in special Centers, where they are engineered to be the members of one from five different castes (Alpha to Epsilon, respectively). The higher the level of caste, the more wit and intellect they are given on birth. Their upbringing includes special methods, which make all the people absolutely happy with their social status and job. Promiscuity became the main part of the society. Books and science are banned or highly censored (to ensure happiness with lack of questions).
But not the whole world is ruled by the World State. Little enclaves, reservations behind giant walls, remained intact. People there live as they wish to, having religion, families, marriage. But their standards of living are much lower than the ones of the World State's citizens. People of reservations are absolutely free in their thoughts, feelings and emotions. But, on the other hand, so are the citizens of the State. Citizens just have no idea about the existence of such things.
And here lies the question, which stroke me and still disturbs. Would I even wish to live in reservation instead of State? 
Another bright side of the novel is well conceived characters. Every person you encounter during your journey through Brave New World would touch on your thoughts, just like one of the main characters, Bernard Marx. Bernard, an Alpha-Plus, was conditioned to be one of the best persons of the world, thus he was given free will and thought freedom. He has enough wit to be unhappy. 
What is worth mentioning is that this book lacks "evil" characters. Huxley liberates us, giving full freedom to decide whom to judge. In most dystopian novels exists an "enemy", a dictator full of notions. In the book we meet Mustapha Mond, the Resident World Controller. And, honestly, this is one of the characters I loved most.
But, even though this book has such strong benefits, the downsides exist as well. I personally believe that the ending of Brand New World is one of the worst parts of this book - opposed to the detailed world of the book, it looks way too crumpled. 
What I enjoyed about the book is the amount of references, small details which make the book even better. The very title is a reference to Shakespeare's Tempest:
O wonder!
How many goodly creatures are there here!
How beauteous mankind is! O brave new world,
That has such people in't.
To sum all things up, I am sure that this book would meet the needs of a worldly-wise man. It gives enough mental pabulum, and along with well-designed characters, lots of thought-provoking ideas and great setting, it is the book you need. But only if you know, what do you want from it. Personally, I wanted questions, and Huxley gave them to me.
