Book review
George Orwell ‘1984’
War is peace.
Freedom is slavery.
Ignorance is strength.
G. Orwell, 1984
‘1984’ which is written by George Orwell in 1949 brought the author worldwide fame and recognition. It belongs to the genre of dystopian novel and depicts the life in totalitarian society. ‘1984’ is the last Orwell’s book which was written a year before his death. By that time he had already published 12 books, one of which, ‘Animal farm’, was also well-known and affected his last book. In satirical and allegorical manner it describes how it is possible for the country to degenerate from democratic state to dictatorship. It is considered that along with ‘Animal farm’ ‘1984’ was based on the history of the USSR during the reign of Stalin.
In the last Orwell’s book the action takes place in 1984. After a big war the world is divided in three transcontinental countries – Oceania, Eastasia and Eurasia, permanently fighting with each other. 
The plot boils down to the following. Winston Smith, the main character, works in the Record Department of Ministry of Truth and everyday rewrites the history of Oceania to suit the needs of the Party. Everything and everybody is under control of so-called Big Brother. ‘Big Brother is watching you’ is written in the streets and inside the buildings. This is possible by the help of telescreens, which are situated in every house and in every public place and also serve to the needs of propaganda. 
The freedom of thoughts and speech is prohibited. There is the official ideology called Ingsoc and new, simpler language called Newspeak.  Dowblethink is a way to believe in contradictory truth like 2 + 2 = 5 or the war is peace and freedom is slavery.  All the people are subordinate to the Ministry of Truth, Ministry of Love, Ministry of War and Ministry of Plenty.  There is no way to love each other until the party gives you a permission to give birth to a child and chooses a partner for you, there is no way to eat or drink what you want.
Winston pretends to be an obedient Party member but in fact he does not believe to the Party and its ideology. He secretly starts a love affair with Julia, a young member of Junior Anti-Sex league. They rent a room from Mr Charrington, the shopkeeper in the prole suburbs, where should not be telescreens. They want to enter secret rebellious organization against Big Brother. But their rebellious love cannot last very long.
The book is written in third-person narration, which gives us an impression of truthfulness. Although the novel is fiction, it is difficult to get rid of the feeling that the events of the story can happen in real life in the not too distant future.
This dystopian has an intriguing plot. It is teaching, touching and thought-provoking.
The author vividly shows us how miserable, awful and hopeless the life could be in a totalitarian society. Orwell reveals the atmosphere of hatred and obedience convincingly and in details. He condemns the idea that without freedom people become stupid and irresponsible for their behavior. The control over person’s behavior, thoughts and speech leads to control over their feelings and emotions and turns them to just functions serving to the upper class of the Party rather than to real people with their own beliefs and ideas. 
According to the author, the feeling of self-respect and freedom is essential for the human being.  Orwell unmasks dictators who desired to build a perfect society but in fact it turned out to be a regress in its development. It is considered that the author was influenced by the examples of fascist regime of Hitler and totalitarian regime of Stalin while preparing this work.  
George Orwell’s novel was a real warning towards the world. He tried to touch upon the problems of war and peace, life and death, good and evil, love and hatred, freedom and total control of people’s lives. He wants readers to understand that no happiness and progress could be achieved with the help of Two Minutes Hate. Orwell carries out the idea that if the truth is replaced by myths, it will definitely lead to disaster.
The novel is in tune with other dystopias like ‘We’ by Zamyatin or ‘Brave new world’ by Huxley. It evokes the feeling of responsibility for the future of the country and the future of the Earth. 
I would strongly recommend this book to everybody in today’s world, which is full of selfishness, hatred and lack of freedom. I come to conclusion that ‘1984’ is a great novel and a real literary monument. 
