Lyons, J. (1995). Homonymy and Polysemy: Lexical and Grammatical Ambiguity. Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction, 54-60.
Componential analysis, or lexical decomposition, is method of presenting the sense of lexeme through it parts. This framework was first introduced by the Prague linguistic circle to describe phonemes by absence or presentence of certain phonetic features. Subsequently, this idea of bipolar description was patterned by the structural semantics to formalize sense relations that hold among lexemes. According to this approach meaning of every word can be parsed into primitive, discrete and comprehensive components that are called "sense-components". For example, the lexeme 'man' can be broken down into sum of such sense-components as 'HUMAN', 'MALE' and 'ADULT'. 
For one thing, lexical decomposition was adopted as a model by such parts of linguistic study as generative semantics, word-field theory and transformational-generative grammar. But for another thing, this approach has many theoretical flaws that restrain it from being multipurpose. At the outset it has to be mentioned that sense-components cannot be considered sufficiently comprehensive as they do not become to explain the metaphorical meaning of the lexeme. For instance, parsing of word 'kitten' - 'FELINE +~ADULT' - do not imply the metaphorical meaning of playfulness. 
Moreover, the discreteness of components does not allow componential analysis to introduce the semantic interaction into its formulas. Thus, for example, the word 'man' in the utterance "Нe is a real man!" cannot be defined by means of lexical decomposition as it is impossible to determine to which sense-component the epithet "real" belongs to, to 'HUMAN', 'MALE' or 'ADULT'. Furthermore, some basic sense-components, e.g. 'FELINE', 'CANINE' and 'BOVINE', are not primitive enough and require additional clarifications. Eventually, lexical decomposition provide rough definitions, in other words, sense-components do not distinguish the shades of meaning that usually occurs in case of synonyms. For example, such different words as 'cat' and 'tiger' have to be equally described - 'FELINE + ADULT'.

In conclusion it has to be said that notwithstanding all above stated drawbacks, componential analysis provides one considerable benefit that can be used in linguistic researches today. Thus corpora semantic annotation is based on the foundations of the approach under review. Due to idea of lexical decomposition semantic annotation considerably simplifies searching process by dividing all the corpus entries into intersecting semantic fields. In addition, as every approach, lexical decomposition has a right to existence and deserves a place in the history of linguistic study.


