The development of informational technologies lets people work from anywhere outside the office. I am sure that in general it is very good, but this possibility has several drawbacks too.

As for the major advantages of working from home, they are the following. Firstly, people have different physical features and habits such as the most comfortable time for working and brain activity, the frequency of breaks when they need to have some rest or the pace of working. Working in the office obliges everyone to work at the same time and with the same rythm, which can lead to the decrease in the efficiency of working. Secondly, not going to the office saves a lot of time that people usually spend on the way to work. Nevertheless, if more people started woking from home, the traffic would become less heavy, there would be less traffic jams, and this would be also better for the ecology. Finally, the chance to plan his or her day lets a person spend more time with his/her family and children. This benefit is primarily good for farthers, who stereotypically often suffer from rarely seeing their children. In general, working from home allows people to balance their lives and to organise their time the way they want.

However, there are some disadvantages of working from home. One of them is the difficulty of staying serious and concentrated, while the home atmosphere is usually relaxing. People can have too much rest or find important housework if they are bored with thier work or lazy. Thus, they spend less time per day on working and their efficiency may fall, especially if they are often distracted by family members or the temptation not to work. What's more, working in an office motivates people to pay attention to their appearance, while staying at home does not. Also at home, where people do not see their colleagues, they become incompetitive and lose the desire to achieve more and to be the best.

On the whole, I think the mobility given by technology is a huge advantage and the pluses of working from home are more important than the minuses, provided that a person is self-organised.
