
The problem of distinguishing between homonymy and polysemy has been discussed in the field of semantics for long time. In chapter 2.2 Homonymy And Polysemy, Lexical And Grammatical Ambiguity of the book by J. Lyons the author makes an attempt to clarify the subject. J. Lyons sheds light on this problem establishing its complexity.  
First of all, the author states that there are two kinds of homonyms: absolute and partial. He identifies the criteria of absolute homonyms as follows: unrelated in meaning, all forms are identical and identical forms are grammatically equivalent. Then he continues by describing the phenomenon of partial homonyms: there are only two criteria of the above sufficient for this semantic relation to be established. And finally he turns to the main question of this work: formulating the criteria to distinguish the phenomena in question.
Although J. Lyons fails to make a clear distinction between homonymy and polysemy, this chapter provides useful information about the problem in hand. 
     The author states that the difference between homonymy and polysemy has never been established. However, he draws a clear distinction between absolute and partial homonyms. Furthermore he claims the uniqueness of the phenomenon of polysemy by describing the connection between the intuition of native speakers and etymology of a word. Lyons provides evidence that native speakers' intuition is considered to be sufficient proof when establishing etymological relationship between two homonyms, despite the fact that it does sometimes fail the speaker. However it is impossible in most cases for a native speaker to tell the difference between polysemy and metaphorical use of homonyms. And that is the main obstacle when one is trying to find a solution for this problem.
 This said it is also necessary to point out some flaws of this chapter. The work would have benefited if the author had taken into account the phenomenon of homonymy and polysemy in other languages besides English. The reason being that the morphology of the English language is quite limited in comparison to others and looking into more complex languages can give more information and bring us closer to establishing the difference between homonymy and polysemy.
Generally, this chapter can be considered quite useful. Although it does not answers the question in hand, it introduces the problem to the reader and provides enough information to enable them to analyze it farther on.

