John Lyons 2.2 'Homonymy and polysemy; lexical and grammatical ambiguity '


The chapter 2.2 'Homonymy and polysemy; lexical and grammatical ambiguity' by John Lyons deals with an important problem of contemporary semantics, namely, the difference between   homonymy and polysemy. While some aspects of this problem are presented sufficiently comprehensively (e.g., lexical homonymy), certain important issues remain unclarified. 
In particular, I would like to comment on the following issues: (1) partial homonymy; (2) grammatical homonymy; (3) the criteria of polysemy.

John Lyons defines homonyms as different lexemes with at least one identical form. The author maintains that this is a basic condition but it should be combined with others: 1) unrelated in meaning; 2) all their forms are identical; 3) the identical forms are grammatically equivalent. If the lexemes satisfy all of the conditions, Lyons calls them 'absolute homonyms'.  If lexemes satisfy one or two of the conditions, they are called 'partial homonyms'. I propose to divide partial homonyms into 2 groups depending on whether they satisfy third term or not. Therefore, there are at least two combinations: first and third terms (e.g., ласка 'endearment' and ласка 'least weasel' in Russian differ in form of genitive case plural) and only first condition (e.g., перед 'fore part' and перед 'in front of' are different parts of speech and not all forms are identical). Division of different parts of speech would simplify Lyons' classification and make all issues of homonymy clear.   

Most scholars continue division distinguishing between homonymy of lexemes with identical form(s) and homonymy of morphemes. Lyons presents general information about lexical homonymy but the author does not mention morphological homonymy which is significant to nouns in languages with cases. For example, three of six forms of russian words of third declension have the same ending -и  (e.g., ночь 'night': forms in genitive, dative and prepositional cases are identical (ночи)). The word in every case has its own meaning and so it is impossible to treat them in the same way. Moreover, division of them is essential for machine translation and for students who learn foreign language which has homonymy. 

After that Lyons distinguishes polysemy and homonymy. It has a significant impact on dictionaries which recognize the distinction between polysemy and homonymy. There is a single dictionary entry for a polysemous item and two or more separate entries for homophonous lexemes.
 
Lyons  describes two criteria which distinguish between homonymy and polysemy. The first one is etymology and the second is relatedness. If words have one origin and they are close in meaning, Lyons consider this event as polysemy and vice-versa. However, there are some debatable cases when one more criterion is needed. The form pupil, for example, has two different meanings, 'school child' and 'part of the eye'. The words have one origin but nowadays they are semantically unrelated. Therefore, it is quite difficult to refer the case to polysemy or homonymy relaying on only two criteria. The verb 'ask' is another sample of disadvantage of using two criteria. It has one origin and at least two different meanings discovered by testing the context (e.g., 'She asked me a favour' and 'She asked me the way'). In these cases scholars look at the correspondences in languages related to English and find whether two meanings correlate with one verb. This criterion is called regularity. It is more objective than intuition of the native speaker about relatedness of meaning so it should be used likewise. Then there are at least three criteria for distinction between homonymy and polysemy and one addition to the test of relatedness of meaning (analyze of context). 
  
To conclude, the study has a significant impact on machine translation, dictionaries and teaching foreign students. However, different ways of testing polysemy and homonymy have been used so an addition with the aim to answer requirements for today's linguistics should be made. In this essay the distinction of homonymy of different parts of speech has been made as it is usually in other languages (e.g., Russian: grammatical vs. lexical homonymy). Also morphological and lexical types of homonymy are distinguished to make all aspects of the topic clear for students. Therefore, the object which has such impact on different issues is given to further consideration.      
   
 

