CHAPTER CRITIQUE
John Lyons. Homonymy and Polysemy : Lexical and Grammatical Ambiguity. In Linguistic Semantics. Pp. 54-60. 
In some cases a word form can be interpreted in different ways. There are two phenomena which can exclaim this situation - homonymy and polysemy. 
Sometimes a word form can be interpreted in different ways. There are two phenomena which can occur in this case - homonymy and polysemy. In the chapter „Homonymy and Polysemy" Lyons describes this phenomena and gives criteria for distinguishing it.
Lyons begins with improving traditional definition of absolute homonymy because he finds it not complete and clear enough. He offers three conditions should be satisfied by identical word forms considered as absolute homonyms:
(i) they are unrelated in meaning; 
(ii) all their forms are identical;
(iii) the identical forms are grammatically equivalent.
While homonymy is a relationship between two or more distinct lexemes, polysemy, or multiple meaning, is a property of single lexemes.
The author gives two main criteria. According to the etymological criterion which is usual supported by the native speakers' untutored intuition, two words are homonymes if they have different historical sources. 
On the assumption of another criterion, the relatedness of meaning, it is also possible to distinguish homonymy from polysemy because one of the principle factors operative in semantic change is metaphorical extension. However, sometimes people by mistake consider homonyms as one word with multiple meaning because of so called popular etymology which is wrong historical background of words invented by ordinary people.
Although in this chapter the author explains very clearly what is the difference between homonymy and polysemy and provides the criteria for distinguishing them, it is still not detailed enough and has lack of terminology. 
The certain advantage of this work is accurate structure and clarity. Homonymy and polysemy can be easily distinguished in the most of cases.
The main point of criticism is that the author only mentions there are some exceptions and does not give enough examples, explanations and recommendations how to make a decision in difficult cases. For instance, if the intuition of native speakers and historical background of words are not coherent which can happen in different languages and has to possible varieties. 
First, two close meanings of a word can in process of time become so far that it is hard to find a something common. This phenomenon is illustrated by Lyons with an example of the homonyms 'sole' ('bottom of foot or shoe') and 'sole' ('a kind of fish') which the average speaker of the language think of as being unrelated in fact come from one source. Such words can be found in other languages, for instance, russian words 'мир' ('world') and 'мир' ('peace') are now marked in dictionaries as homonyms although they have common historical background.
Second, due to popular etymology homonyms can be considered as multiple meanings. Nowadays a number of speakers assume that 'shock' like in 'a shock of corn' and 'shock' as in 'shock of hair' while in reality they have different origins. Another example is a couple of  russian words 'рысь' ('lynx') and 'рысь' ('trot').
Although the author provides examples for such cases, he does not give any additional criteria which are necessary in such cases. It could be a time criterion implying how long should native speakers consider two words to be homonyms instead of multiple meanings or conversely. A  criterion for detecting polysemy could be the existence of similar metaphorical extensions. The words 'table' and 'desk' are a good example for such a criterion.
Another disadvantage of this work is the particular description of homonymy and, as a consequence, lack of terminology. For instance, Lyons refers to grammatical homonymy but does not even mention homographs, homophones and heteronyms.
To sum up, this text can be useful for non-linguists while professionals should be provided more detailed information.
