In the episode "He said…She said" of the radio broadcast "Fry's English Delight', Stephen Fry tries to investigate whether men and women really use and understand language differently. Stephen Fry himself is humorous and brainy as always, but I don't quite agree with some statements which were made in this episode. 
To be exact, I doubt the main conclusion in which Stephen Fry and his interviewee Dr. Cameron agreed that language difficulties are not at all connected with gender. Surely, it is true that there is no perfect communication between both same sex people and people of different sex, however, I suppose that it is also obvious that men will rather understand men, whereas women will have less difficulties in communication with women. Fry's conclusion seems to be even more surprising and illogical, because the previous discussion proves that there are certain distinctions in a way, women and men use language. 
For example, a Jennifer Coats's speech, in which she mentioned that topics in conversation of men and women are different, and it is the absolute truth! In my life experience, I met many women, who love to talk about their failures and funny situations. However, none of the men I know, talks about their own little disasters, making fun of their male friends, of familiar women - yes, but not of themselves!! However, men's way of talking sometimes remind women's jam session, it depends only on where man talks and with whom. In company of good friends both men and women talk in a very deliberate way, supporting the group interest. 
Another part of this episode, that I fully enjoyed, is one, providing examples of "He says…she says" Although, sometimes it is an exaggeration, but in some of the "woman thinks-woman says" examples I found myself. For instance, in these two pairs: when woman says 'We need to talk', she means "I need to complain", and when woman says 'I'm not upset", she means 'Of course, I'm upset!!'. 
All in all, although I enjoy this episode very much, I still disagree with the main conclusion: different sexes have less in common, than same sex people, so it clearly have an effect on the way men and women think, talk and communicate.
