Writing task 2

In the past, shopping was a routine domestic task. Many people nowadays regard it as a hobby. Is it a good trend or is shopping just a waste of time?

To begin with, the process of shopping has greatly changed, at least in Russia. About thirty years ago people in the Soviet Union had to wait for hours in long queues to get anything they wanted. That time there was not much food in my country at all, so everything people managed to buy was like a trophy. My parents told me much about those terrible queues. As far as I know, some people did not even know what they were going to buy, they just wanted to buy something because of the deficit. So all these things made the process of shopping have unpleasant assosiations.

Nowadays, the situation has changed. There are lots of goods of all kinds in shops and the most difficult problem for customers is to choose the right one. 

However, there are some disadvantages, too. The main problem is that in big shopping centres people waste much money on things which they do not really need. Profusion of goods makes people to stay longer in supermarkets and to think if they need something or not. 

Personally, I consider shopping to be an extremely boring hobby, as it does not develop my mind, does not make me stronger and does not give me any other profits but new clothes or food or some other things which may be not necessary. For me, i do not like such a way to waste my time and my money and I suppose people who do shopping as a hobby does not have enough time for other important and interesting activities. However, I doubt that if there would be no possibility to go shoping, people who consider shopping to be their hobby would become great scientists of sportmen. Thus, I think shopping is just one of hobbies which do not make people cleverer or stronger.

To sum up, I would like to say that I appreciate any hobbies, as I think everyone should everything he or she likes if only it does not threaten other people. 
