«Educational system based on curriculum and standardized testing leads to establishing the system of indoctrination of the young, which only prepares them for life of conformity».


There is no doubt that education has become an essential part of modern world; this is why numerous arguments on the theme of enlightenment and teaching do take place nowadays. Some people claim that the established syllabus is unmatched and doesn’t require any changes, whereas others assume standardization to do more harm that good to the young. I share the second opinion.

There are several arguments supporting my point of view. First of all,  “standard” does sound like a synonym to “lack of creativity”. With the adoption of an established system, in other words curriculum, space for imagination is surely being driven out. Consequently, those brought up by such syllabus often end up having no ability of thinking spontaneously, differently and introducing something new to our fast-moving world. Moreover, the fact that standardized assessment can turn studying into preparation for finals shouldn’t be missed out of attention.  The risk of forcing enlightenment to background in favour of excellent marks is undoubtedly high and is already not just likelihood, but reality at many educational institutions (especially on senior years of studying). This can also lead to simplification of education. To crown it all, it’s well known, that some education programs are as old as the hills. I do exaggerate, but in every joke there is some joke. Most of curricula haven’t been changed for a while, which is simply not compatible to the age of high technologies.

However, there are those arguing against. They believe that a skill of following an organized list of rules is undeniably useful and also acknowledge standardized tests to provide equal rights for everyone.

Still, I am sure that this equality isn’t equal enough. Yes, students are given the same tasks, but thousands of youngsters simply don’t have an access to tests or to education in general for some reasons (e.g. high prices of education, no affordable or available options for disabled people etc.). I partly agree with the fact that following rules is definitely crucial and no one would welcome anarchy, but without those bright ones able to think outside the box and turning away from motto “Fac simile”, world would be a less colourful place.

Taking everything into consideration, I believe that one shouldn’t do exclusively with fundamentals.  The same is with education system.

Tsygunova Maria
1st year F&AL NRU HSE
