Lyons, J. (1995). Homonymy and Polysemy: Lexical and Grammatical Ambiguity. Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction, 54-60.

John Lyons is an English linguist and a theorist of linguistic semantics. The substantial majority of his research papers is devoted to the issues of word connotations and their correlation. In the chapter Homonymy and Polysemy: Lexical and Grammatical Ambiguity Lyons likewise refers to the notions of semantic relationships between lexemes and endeavors to give definitions to these concepts.

In the following chapter the author gives explanation of homonymy and polysemy and outlines two criteria that can be used to in order distinguish these two different semantic relationships. The first one is etymology of the lexeme. Lyons asserts that the intuition of an average native speaker is sufficient to determine whether two similar words have the same or different origins and therefore are polysemous or homonymous. The second condition is relatedness of meaning, particularly metaphorical extension. The author avers that each informant is capable of revealing meaning shift in the word use and thus polysemy. 

The main argument of the chapter is clear and logical, but the criteria of distinction between homonymy and polysemy are rather unsubstantiated. The first condition that concerns etymology has to be reconsidered as far as intuition of an average speaker is unable to provide objective information about the historical basis of the lexeme. Moreover, the etymology of words is not an intuitive knowledge and the considerable majority of informants cannot demonstrate it. Eventually, the origin of some words is not always clear to make presumptions about the type of semantic relationships that occur between them. For example, Russian verb топить has at least three different meanings: to melt, to heat and to drown, but the etymology is vague and therefore there is no evidence whether there are three different lexemes or solely one in such case.

On the first glance the second criterion that applies to relatedness of meaning is persuasive. However, it can be contested either. First of all, every informant can invent all sorts of metaphors to find the connexion between two different meanings of the word. For instance, pupil as a student and pupil as a part of eye can be associated with each other by the idea of the attention they pay to the world around. Nevertheless, this way thinking will not prove than the lexeme pupil is polysemous. Finally, it is impossible to except the cases of the accidental meaning shift when the link between two or more meanings is not obvious or cannot be explained.

In conclusion it is essential to mention that the differentiating of homonymy and polysemy could be presented not as a bipolar opposition but as a continuum. This method of presenting linguistic categories already exists in morphology and can be introduced into semantics to solve certain issues, including the definitional ambiguity of homonymy and polysemy.
