Review
John Lyons. Componential analysis. In Linguistic Semantics. pp. 107-114.
Componential analysis is a method which is based on the principles firstly introduced by Prague linguistic circle in order to describe phonology of languages. However, later it was successfully applied in semantics. The analysis is based on the concept of lexical decomposition, which involves dividing a word into several sense-components. Thus, each word can be presented as a combination of these sense-components. For example, the word 'boy' can be considered as the product of three semantic components: human & male & non-adult.
In his chapter John Lyons introduces the definition of componential analysis and explains the rules of its organization. However, the sense-components, which componential analysis is based on, can be at the same time effective and ineffective instrument of formalizing the language description, depending on the purpose.
This approach can be useful in some practical computer-oriented tasks, such as semantic annotation in corpora. The semantic annotation has partly developed on the componential analysis principles, such as extracting a common factor for a group of objects. By means of distinguishing them into several semantic fields, it became simpler to find certain lexemes in the corpora. The following example can be considered: a request is to find all the lexemes that include the meaning 'animal'. All that a user has to do is to put a tick in the particular place in the list of semantic features of a word to set up conditions for the search. Then the user will receive the results, most of which will be relevant.
On the contrary, theoretical basis seems to be arguable, because of the uncertainty of the terms the author operates. Perhaps, the main disadvantage of them is that they are not precise enough. According to Lyons, sense components must be universal, but, in fact, some of them can be considered differently. For instance, it is hard  to specify a certain age category for the word  'guy' as it was demonstrated earlier for 'boy', because there is no special criterion for distinguishing 'guy' as adult or non-adult. 
In particular, componential analysis fails in explanation of metaphorical extension and semantic interactions. According to the theory, the word 'man' consists of such sense-components as human, male and adult. In the phrase 'He is a real man!' it is absolutely unclear to which component the word 'real' refers, whether the person is a 'real human', a 'real male' or a 'real adult'. However, it is assumed that the word itself is connected not with one of the semantic components of the word 'man', but with a wide range of characteristics that every man is supposed to have, for example, strength, honor and bravery. Probably, this approach would have been more valuable if the rules of describing metaphors had been added.  
In conclusion, although componential analysis is a useful application, it has some theoretical flaws. Languages may have some sophisticated words that would refer to a variety of senses, depending on the context they are put in. That is why the instrument of analyzing the sense structure must be based on the promptly elaborated theory.

