Few decades ago gender issue might have caused harsh discussions and even debates but today this theme turns out to be hackneyed and those who raise it immediately become the object of derision. Nevertheless, that issue is still under discussion, for instance, that question was aroused again in Steven Fry's radio program series "Fry's English Deight".
     The series headed "He said, She said" is about the differences in men's and women's language usage and language behavior. Steven Fry argues that the main reason of these differences to occur is gender self-attribution and the pressure of the stereotypes that society lays upon each gender. In conclusion he states that the well-known misunderstanding between genders and all people on the whole has nothing to do with these differences in language behavior and usage and must be caused by the imperfection of the communication functions of the language in general.    
     From my point of view the conclusion and the arguments given in the program have no connection at all. The reciprocal misunderstanding between people on the whole is obviously caused by the failure of the language communication functions which have nothing to do with gender. This failure has to be closely investigated in the paradigm of the semantics and especially pragmatics. Lots of great scientists of the 20th century such as L. Wittgenstein tried to explain that phenomenon in the terms of linguistics and philosophy that is why such weak idea of gender gap which existence is still doubtful cannot be reason of this failure.
     The differences between genders stated in the program that originate from outdated stereotypes no longer exist and maybe never existed. I do believe that differences in language usage and behavior do not spring from gender but from upbringing, education and personal characteristics.
     In conclusion it has to be said that some linguistic and psychological questions surely can be discussed in non-professional atmospheres but they have to be chosen and described in a very precise and accurate way not to cause further unprofessional debates because these debates in particular give birth to labels and stereotypes.
