

Jonh Lyons' book "Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction." might be interesting to a wide range of people. Accessible language and a considerable amount of examples make it easier for an unprepared reader to understand the text. For example, in the chapter 2.2 "Homonymy and polysemy, lexical and grammatical ambiguity" the author is discussing the difference between the two concepts: homonymy and polysemy.
A significant part of the chapter is dedicated to the definition of the term "homonymy". Here Lyons argues with the traditional method of defining the term. He claims it to be imprecise and supplements it with two new concepts: absolute and partial homonymy. To illustrate the difference between them he uses the form "found" which can be a form of the lexeme "find" as well as a form of "found". Then he introduces the term "polysemy" which is exceedingly close to homonymy: whereas the latter means that two or more different lexemes have similar forms, the former signifies one lexeme having two or more different meanings. This leads to some difficulties in the distinction between the two concepts and this is where the main problem lies: how to distinguish among homonymy and polysemy? The author proposes two criteria for it: etymology and relatedness of meaning. However, both criteria cannot be precise, there are some cases in which they contradict with native speakers' intuition or simply don't work. In the end, Lyons comes to a conclusion that this problem is extremely hard, if not impossible, to solve.
I cannot but agree with Lyons in the question that the problem he states is uneasy to solve. His explanation of the concept of homonymy is very thorough. The example of it is comprehensively analyzed, which enables the reader to easily distinguish between absolute and partial homonymy. On the other part the explanation of polysemy lacks examples, so it is even more difficult to distinguish it from homonymy. In the end, it leaves the reader with the question: is there any difference between absolute homonymy and polysemy? It looks like the problem is the definition of lexeme itself, in which case it is possible that either the concept of polysemy or the concept of absolute homonymy cannot exist.
There certainly are some positive and negative sides in the chapter. On the one hand, some parts are well written and minute, but on the other hand, there are parts which require a more specific explanation.

