

The distinctions between homonymy and polysemy have been revealed by semanticists for many years, yet the traditional approach lacks clarity and cannot predict which types of homonymy can result in ambiguity and which cannot.

In his well-known textbook Linguistic Semantics in the chapter Homonymy and Polysemy: Lexical and Grammatical Ambiguity, John Lyons starts off by demonstrating that the traditional definition of homonyms as different words with the same form, is vague. Instead, he offers to substitute 'lexeme' for 'word' but still considers this definition as defective. 

In the next paragraph the author provides the definition of absolute homonymy, conditional on three criteria: whether all the forms are 1) unrelated in meaning, 2) identical and 3) grammatically equivalent. Then he establishes a notion of partial homonymy, which is illustrated, for example, by the verbs 'find' and 'found'. These verbs share the same form, which satisfies the first criterion of partial homonymy about identity of minimally one form.  The second criterion states that only one or two criteria of absolute homonymy must be satisfied, and is not also violated in the above example where the forms of the verbs are not grammatically equivalent to each other.

In the following paragraphs, Lyons deals with the problem of lexical and grammatical ambiguity, which occurs, for instance, in the sentence 'They found hospitals and charitable institutions'. Both verbs 'find' and 'found' can take a noun-phrase 'hospitals and charitable institutions' as their direct object, and both have the form 'found'. If the form 'have' is put before the form 'found', the ambiguity is eliminated. However, the author affirms that ambiguity, which results from absolute homonymy, cannot disappear after the grammatical environment of the sentence has been changed.

Lyons continues by stating that the traditional definition of polysemy as a property of single lexemes, makes the difference between homonymy and polysemy imprecise, and offers two criteria: 1) etymology and 2) relatedness of meaning. However, Lyons highlights examples in which semantically unrelated words like 'sole1' ("bottom of foot or shoe") and 'sole'2 ("kind of fish") have the same origins, and the converse situations also exist. In order to explain such cases, the author claims that what is considered historically as homonymy might be reinterpreted by later generations of speakers as polysemy.

Leaving aside the fact that Lyons has described such complicated terms of homonymy and polysemy in an accessible way even to a non-specialist, there are several criticisms, which can be levelled at his work. First, it is still not obvious which of the criteria is more relevant - etymological or semantic. For example, the Russian word 'коса' has at least two meanings: 1) "a tool used for cutting crops such as grass or corn"; 2) "a hairdo formed by braiding or twisting the hair". Both meanings have semantic affinity but they differentiate in etymology, which means that this case cannot be related neither to homonymy, nor to polysemy. 

In addition, the semantic criterion appears to be ambiguous and the article would have benefited if the author had explained how to define relatedness in words' meaning. 

Finally, Lyons description of homonymy and polysemy could have been more detailed if he had included the information about the universality of criteria in other languages.

Despite the above criticisms, Lyons has provided a complete description of homonymy and polysemy having highlighted the general notions which are essential for the firsthand view of this area.

