Critical review of Lyon's book chapter on Homonymy


The chapter of J. Lyon's textbook on semantics devoted to homonymy and polysemy sets out to present various kinds of homonymy to students of linguistics and also explain the difference between homonymy and polysemy.
The author starts the description with the most common understanding of homonymy: "different words with the same form", and continues with its minor correction "by substituting lexeme for word". However, after that he states that the definition remains imprecise and establishes another terminology.
The first notion given by the author is 'absolute homonymy'. According to the text, this kind of homonymy is defined by three criteria: disconnectedness of meanings, all the word forms' identity and grammatical equivalence of identical forms. Then the author gives a notion of a partial homonymy: as he explains further, the words are considered partial homonyms if one or two absolute homonymy criteria are fulfilled and there is minimally one identical form of the words. However, in the following paragraphs he presents different degrees of homonymy and gives numerous examples, the majority of which are based on forms of verbs to find and to found. 
In the last paragraph on homonymy, the author mentions non-prototypical cases of the phenomena, illustrated with the noun 'rung'  and one of the forms of the verb 'ring', and asserts that these cases are rarely taken into account as the instances of partial homonymy. This remark is reasonable, especially in the light of the computer linguistics, as these forms are hardly considered as homonyms by the majority of people but are equivalent for a text analysis program.
The author continues the article with polysemy. In general, he defines polysemy as a property of a single lexeme. Then he differentiates homonymy and polysemy and appeals to etymology and relatedness in meaning. However, he notices that it is not obligatory for polysemous words to have a common etymology as they may be considered polysemous on the basis of a similar meaning. As for the difference between homonymy and polysemy, they are traditionally considered to be different phenomena, but practically there are few cases of clear homonymy and, on the other hand, clear polysemy. 
In general, the author failed to provide a full overview of homonymy and polysemy. The main problem of the chapter is poor material used as examples of any kind of homonymy. It is also typologically inappropriate: all the instances were taken from English, and there is no evidence that all possible instances of homonymy may be illustrated with English examples. To improve the chapter, the author could have given several examples from other languages.
Another author's fault is the absence of some kinds of homonymy's descriptions. One of them is homonymy between different word forms within one paradigm. To give an example of this homonymy type, the author could have appealed to any language where nouns have case, such as Latin or Russian:

книги (book-Gen.Sg.) - книги (book-Nom.Pl.)

This example is impossible in English as there are no cases in this language, but is quite common for the languages where this category is grammaticalised.
 Moreover, there are cases which are specific for English and may be considered as homonymy but are also missed in the chapter. These are derivation pairs 'noun - verb' as hammer - to hammer, turn - to turn, look - to look etc. The chapter would have been more trustworthy if the author had included these examples in the text, because even if the author aimed to make an introduction of homonymy based on English, he should have considered at least all the most common homonymy cases in English.
To sum up, the chapter from the book lacks typologically different material and does not mention all possible cases of homonymy. It means that students of linguistics who study homonymy reading his book will not get full overview of the topic.

