It is obvious that today it costs a lot to travel in Moscow. It doesn't depend on the mean of transport: whether it is public or individual. Travelling by metro in the day time might be the most reliable way to get to some point on time, but during the rush hour it is awful because there are a lot of people that are unfriendly and the only goal they have is to get on train. They don't think about people around them, full train can be compared with a tin of sardines and like sardine you feel there. Travelling by upground transport also has problems: the same about people and also traffic jams. Although they try to solve the latter but it doesn't work: they made these special lines for buses but there are still cars on it and after snowing snowdrifts are hindering the path. Trams could be a solution but the routes are being reduced, so there are hardly any places, where you can get by tram. But the most great and urgent topic is traffic jams, bad roads and all these things connected with car movement. There some alternatives for individual cars. For example, in Amsterdam (Netherlands) and in Sapporo (Japan) everybody is cycling. It's rather comfortable when we talk about all services to support it, special tracks, another climate and short distances. Also it requires a change in traditional life, because there everybody from kids to elderlies uses bicycle and I find difficulty trying to imagine elder Russians cycling, it takes time to accustom to it. Another idea is common in Rome (Italy): on the streets there are a lot of motorbikes and therefore fewer cars. Recently I have come round one funny idea, I don't know whether it is true or not, but it sounds like this: in Paris (France) they want to impose high taxes on individual car and open a lot of cheap rent-a-car offices so that person rather share car rental with somebody than have his own car. But I think that for Moscow isn't it that is the most important: firstly, we have to cope with bad planning of interchanges and organization of traffic; secondly, especially in winter - to improve snow cleaning. I think everybody knows the common expression: 'As always winter came to Moscow suddenly'. And about public transport I think that for different companies starting working at different time may cause a reduction of amount of people.