Some businessmen today believe that private space tourism is going to become the new step in space exploration and in tourism industry. I think it is really possible and it can develop people's knowledge about the universe a lot.

Historically, it is natural that the development in some industry has turned into a something that ordinary people can benefit from. From the beginning, ships, trains and airplanes were used only for transportation and other strategical needs or as weapons. Gradually, they became mass means of transport, and today we use them for travelling. The same transformation is very likely to happen to spaceships too: now it is extremelly expensive to use one for private purpose but in future there might be a way to make it affordable. 

I am sure that many travel companies are planning to expand their business to space. It seems to me that, with the worldwide urbanisation, there are few areas on the Earth that people do not know about. As humans have been always looking for the unknown to explore, lots of people will udoubtedly desire to go on a trip to cosmos. Of course, such trips won't be cheap, but millionaires will be able to afford them. 

The only problem in my opinion is safety. Space travelling is much more dangerous than, for example, travelling by plane. The design of spaceships is more complicated than that of planes, what's more, there might be unexpected dangers in the outer space, such as comets or asteroids. So, the possibility of space tourism is a matter of time needed for studying all the dangers that may occur during those trips and for constructing cheaper and safer means of space transport.

I think that if this revolution in tourism happens, astronomy, space engineering and other related sciences and indusrties will start developing by leaps and bounds. Due to the great amounts of money given by the future travellers, these spheres will be well funded, that's why the space exploration will go on much faster than today. 

On the whole, I believe that the future is full of new astonishing discoveries of the cosmos and that private space tourism will be possible or even popular.
