Task1

The graph provides information, based on data of the United Nations World Tourism Organization, about how many tourists arrive in different parts of the world from 1990 till 2005. 
According to the diagram the most visiting place in the world is Northern America, while the part, in which tourists arrive less, is the South America. What is interesting is the fact, that over the time the figure devoted to Northern America was quite permanent – the rate increases not much. The same trend is indicated on figures Sub-Saharan Africa, South America and South-East Asia. However, this tendency is not valuable for all part of the world, for example, Central and Eastern Europe was becoming more popular among tourists between 1990 and 2005. The proportion increases from 30 million people to almost 90 million. It may reveal the changings in social and political life in this area. 
To sum it up, the graph illustrates tourist’s choices in which part of the world to arrive between 1990 and 2005 years. 

Task 2

It is not a secret that everybody would like to have a well-paid job and at the same time love the work, he or she does, but in the most frequent cases such balance between what you like and how much money you get is not achieved. In this situation some people claim that good salary is in a priority, while I still believe, that enjoyable job is more important.

First, I agree that to have a high salary is a great benefit, because people have to get some amount of money to eat and live. Especially it is important for men, who are the head of the family and should support children and wife with finance. However, if your salary is high, but you hate your job - nobody gets profit. First of all, your employers. Psychologies claim that our psychological well-being is closely related to our thoughts and mood. That's why, your attitude to the job reflects in the results, which is bad not only for you, but for your boss and the whole company as well. Secondly, the attitude for a work may have a very bad consequences not only in carrier life, but in your psychological, even has a bad impact on your health. For instance, I know a significant number of cases, when men were not satisfied with their job and it leaded to alcoholic and some suicide situations. 

To sum it up, I do believe that have a job, which you do like, is a prior aim. At the same time I agree that have a well-paid work is important. It is up to people, which of the options to choose, but I wish everybody could find a job, which would be good correspond with his or her interests. 
