People are shown three pictures, one of a man about to kick a ball, one of the same

man having just kicked a ball, and a third of a different man who is about to kick a 

ball. They are then asked which two of the three are the most similar. Indonesians 

generally choose the first two pictures, which have the same man in them, while 

English speakers are likely to identify the two pictures that show the ball about to 

be kicked.

What do you think this experiment might reveal about the worldview that English 

speakers and Indonesian speakers have? 

  Many linguists noticed that people all over the world encode information 

differently and call the objects that surround them different names. This is because 

each language has its own rules and wants people to follow them. All people can 

understand some phenomenon but they express it in different ways. Some language 

focuses on the aspect of time and some other language pays attention to the space 

around. 

  I know that some languages require their speakers to include temporal 

information in every utterance. When I read the topic of the essay, I started to 

search information about Indonesian language. I wanted to find the differences 

between the structure in Indonesian and English because I thought it would help 

me to understand their worldview.

  Every time English speakers use a verb, they are conveying information about 

time. Depending on whether something has happened already, is happening now, 

or will happen in the future, the speaker must pick different verb forms. Without 

the temporal information, the sentence would be incomplete, ungrammatical. 

  It turns out not so in Indonesian. Unlike English, Indonesian verbs never change 

to express time. Although Indonesian speakers can add words like already or soon, 

this is optional. I think Indonesians chose those pictures because they do not mark 

the time, they do not have the concept of process time unlike English speakers. 

Indonesian speakers were more likely to say two photographs were similar when 

the man in the photo doing the kicking was the same. English speakers were more 

likely to say photographs were similar when the men in the photos were doing the 

same action in time. English speakers focus on the temporal aspect, rather than the 

spatial, relationship between the principal objects in the picture.

   I am interested in the paradox: time (along with space) is one of the two 

dimensions of reality, this is the basis and yet it is ephemeral. In English "time" is 

the most frequently used noun; but how the perception of time tripled – it is a big 

mystery.

  When we talk about time, we always use images of space: March is before April. 

All the best ahead. The worst is behind us. Languages and cultures of the world 

differ greatly in this sense. How do we think about things we can never see or 

touch? I hope linguists will answer this question because it will bring a huge 

understanding of the world and humanity.
