Each of us has ever heard about critical thinking. It is one of the school subjects in the USA and when you are graduated from the school, you should pass an exam on it. According to the definition, critical thinking is the intellectually disciplined process of actively and skillfully conceptualizing, applying, analyzing, synthesizing information gathered from observation, reasoning and experience. It sounds like a great and amazing opportunity for young people to begin thinking off the beaten track, to think individually and creatively. So, don't we need to add this subject to Russian curriculum? Let's try to think about it from the different points of view.
To start with, it is really useful to start thinking critically as early as we can, because when we are thinking about what to do or what to say in a different situation, we develop such qualities as clarity and accuracy of thoughts, self-confidence and ability to develop ideas consequentially coherently and logically. Moreover, these lessons  help us feel ourselves as adults, think like adults and be fully responsible for our actions. Finally, the ability to think critically help you  become a leader in your class or in your group or even feel yourself like a leader for whole your life. I guess, nobody could say something against this subject from the point which I have described. But all the gold medals have two sides, so there is a bad side of this too.
The main question is whether we are ready for this subject? Unfortunately, it is more usual in our schools to teach pupils thinking in old patterns. Our exam system, which is called the Unified State Exam (EGE in Russian pronunciation), is not about creative and critical thinking. I think that I am a very lucky person because I finished school two years ago when it had been only a third or a fourth year of conducting USE so we have been taught to think in old patterns only for the last two years of school. But nowadays poor teachers have to teach poor children from the very first year to think stereotypically and to solve similar boring problems. I guess, everybody has ever seen a part of exam on Russian language. A composition there is absolutely horrible!! We are taught to say exactly the same things at exactly the same places or a strict comission would lower our scores. It is sad, but we are not at all ready to pass an exam on critical thinking right now. What is more, we all know that our government is very good at picking up good ideas and making something horrible of them. So who knows, maybe it would be another subject which wouldn't be as useful and beneficial for our children. We  all tired of silly reforms and transformations and want some peaceful time without any big changes.
There is one way to solve this problem in Russia. I think as it is really a good quality to think critically, parents should consider how to teach their children to think that way . I have seen a books about critical thinking in shops and it is easy to google it and find all new information about its aims and methods. As I remember my house was always full of books about logical and critical thinking. Moreover, there are some enthusiasts in schools which taught pupils in the optional courses to think critically. Our English teacher Tamara Vladimirovna was one of them, she often gave us a difficult questions and situations and we had to write how we would act in such  situation. She even found and gave us exam exercises on critical thinking from foreign universities. And it was really great experience.
To sum up, my point of view is that critical thinking is very useful but we are not ready to get it now across the whole country as a subject and then  an exam. But parents and teachers who want their children and pupil to be the best have the aces in their hands to make it possible.
