Environmental Volunteer Organizations
Introduction
The main aims of the report are:
- To find out whether people are aware of local environmental volunteer organizations;
- To attract attention to local environmental volunteer organizations;
- To  find out if people are ready to be a volunteer and save the nature
I collected the data from 20 people between the ages 15-20 living in Moscow with the questionnaire provided. 
General knowledge
The survey shows that most of the interviewed people neither had ever heard about the main local environmental volunteer organizations (95%), nor knows about the purpose of  organizations of such kind (80%), though their existance seems to be evident to them (70%).
Nature help involvance
45% of the interviewees says they are concerned about environmental problems, 30% answered they are not sure 20% they are not and 5% had never thought of it.
90% has answered they don't take part in any environmental volunteer  organization. Only 10% take part in  organizations, among them Greenpeace and Care2Causes are named.
Although for the question about how interviewees had helped the nature: 35% answered they had cleaned forests and parcs; 25%  had collected rubbish for recycling, had signed petitions and had taken part in the Earth Hour organized by WWF; 20% had written a volunteer project in BZHD; 10% donated money and helped stray animals; 5% had helped combatting forest fires. Still, 30% answered they hadn't done anything to help the nature.
Volunteer organization efficiency
According to the survey, 40% is for usefulness of the environmental volunteer organizations; 20% thinks they are useless; 10% thinks they are very useful; 30% doesn't know.
88,2% thinks these organizations might solve the pollution problem; 35,3% - to help stray animals; 11,8% - solve the problem of animal extinction. There also were given problems like cutting down forests and litter.
15% of the interviewees suggest that environmental volunteer organizations have to be governmental; 35% is for independent organizations; 50% supposes there must be both of them. Numerous reasons were given, such as: "Both, because government gives an official status to the environmental movement, and independent organizations make you think you are free to decide, they give you sense of responsibility", "They will have money and there will not be any problems with organization", "Only independent organizations can work in Russia, where most governmental organizations are highly unefficient and corrupted".
Still, 60% would not want to be involved in environmental volunteer organizations.
Conclusion
To sum up, it's difficult to say whether people are truly aware of the local environmental volunteer organizations, because of few information they have due to unpopularity of the green movement. People may be concerned about saving the nature, but they don't know how exactly to do it.
Solutions:
- To create more local environmental volunteer organizations;
- To spread more information about the organizations;
- To organize campaigns and festivals to attract attention to environmental problems and interest people in being involved
Maybe in some time people may get more encouraged to save the nature and create their own organizations and take part in them for the sake of healthy life in future.
