                                THE  FIRST  PART  OF  THE  NOVEL
                           " THE  PICTURE  OF  DORIAN  GRAY"
      "The picture of Dorian Gray" is a famous novel of the British writer Oscar Wilde. This is a impressive story describing the most sinful sides of human's nature and soul. It contains the true pictures of a real the life as well as some imaginative elements. The first part of the book shows the beginning of the main hero's life which will lead him to a tragic end.
     The novel tells us about a young man Dorian Gray, a typical London aristocrat of the middle of the XIX century. He is extremely handsome and his personality at the beginning of the story is not evil. The book begins with the scene where an artist Basil told to his friend Lord Henry that he had drawn a wonderful picture of Dorian Gray. The Lord Henry, who was a bad and skeptical person, waned to meet with Dorian, but Basil asked him not to make a bad influence on the young man. Later on, the artist himself introduced Dorian to Lord Henry. During their meeting Basil gave his picture to Dorian as a gift and wished him to maintain his youthful beauty through the entire life. After that Dorian plunged to the idle aristocratic life. But suddenly he passionately fell in a big love with a talented young actress Sibyl Vane. His love was so strong that he decided to marry her. Dorian invited Basil and Henry to the theatre to introduce his love to them. But the relationships resulted in Sibyl's fiasco as an actress, because she had been thinking only about Dorian and could not play her roles well. Dorian felt embarrassed in the company of his friends. After the play had ended he said to Sibyl that she had killed his love to her. She tried to apologize by saying that she would never be a great actress again, because all her feelings had been given to Dorian. But he announced that he had loved her only as an actress, so he would never love her again. When he came home he saw a wrinkle of cruelty appeared on his picture, though his own face did not change. He understood that he had been very cruel to Sibyl and decided to restore their relationship. But is it possible? Will he be able to correct his mistake and not to get drowned in the sea of other sins? This you will be able to find out in the second part of the book. 
    The novel is a well-written and interesting reflection on human's life and personality. It shows us how a person can became immoral. So we can think about what we should or should not to do to repeat Dorian's life. I believe this is very important. 
