Some people believe that schlools should choose students by their academic abilities, others are sure that there is more use in having students with different abilities in one school. I think that different abilities and skills among students are benefitial both for the school and for the students.

While studying, a student develops different abilities and discovers new talents and sides of his or her mind. As the school teaches children all types of subjects, the students need different approaches to studying. For one subject the ability to memorise a lot of things is essential, while for another it's more important to analyse and to think logically or to be creative. This variety of skills required for the studies forces a student not to keep using his or her major natural talent, but to go on to develop the abilities he or she lacks. The ability to grow over him- or herself is the most important that one could have aftre school.

What's more, surrounded by the people of the same talents or abilities, a person finds it hard to fell special, unusual, gifted or exceptional, while this feeling is topical for teenagers. 

Nevertheless, students of different abilities should be able to study togerther, because it's fair, as schools must give basical education to every child. If all the schools specialised on one type of students, there would be more and less prestigious ones, and the children woudn't be equal in the right to enter one school or another. I'm sure that students should choose the school, not contrary.

There are people who argue that the quality of education at each school would be higher, if they selected students with the particular academic abilities. I agree, that thus the process of education would be faster and the education program would fit the majority of students and they would feel comfortable during their studies. But I still believe that the schools benefit when there are different types of students in them, as they can teach each other something useful and to show a good example in the things they are capable of.

On the whole, there can be different views on this problem and, maybe, there should be different ways of how schools select students. Thus, the schools and the students would be free in their choice and would focus on what they appreciate most in the process of studying - the diversity or the quality.
