     «Animal farm: a fairy story» is a dystopian novel by George Orwell, who is a famous British writer. As he said this book is a parody of Soviet system of government. George Orwell was against the totalitarianism so he intended to compare the characters of this novel with the real personalities. Moreover, he wanted his book to be translated into Russian easily and wrote about complicated things using the simplest way. So the delineation of these escapist characters evokes some references to the well-known party leaders.
      The novel begins with a Rebellion of animals on a Manor Farm. It was planned by Old Major (a reference to K.Marx and Lenin), a boar who inspired his comrades. Rebellion became a consequence of people’s unfair and injustice handling with animals. After the farm owner expulsion, too pigs, Snowball (a reference to Leon Trotsky) and Napoleon (a reference to Joseph Stalin), developed the philosophy of Animalism with Seven Commandments, the main was «All animals are equal». Snowball started to teach other animals how to read and write. Pigs were considered as the cleverest ones so most of them studied the whole alphabet and read properly, when others were not able to remember more than just a few letters.  Napoleon decided to become a leader and argued with Snowball against the building of a windmill, which was invented by the second one. So Napoleon chased Snowball away but nevertheless started to build a windmill. Then he began to manage with the Farm by himself and chose an assistant, Squealer (a reference to Molotov), who made a statistics that the farm life become better and better every day. But it got worse and worse as it went on - Napoleon started to kill animals if they were opposite to his opinion. After that, one of neighbour farmers attacked the Animal Farm and destroyed the windmill. Animals saved their farm but there were a lot of victims. Boxer, who was a workhorse, had a wound but started to work even harder. He wanted to rebuild the windmill and had his own motto «Napoleon is always wright». But Napoleon sent him to a slaughter-house saying than it is a veterinary clinic and used the money to buy whisky for himself. After some years hardly any of animals remembered about the life before the Rebellion, pigs started to sleep in beds, wear clothes and walk using too legs.  There was the only one commandment: "All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others". Napoleon decided to make a dinner for pigs and human farmers to discuss some business plans. They restored the name «Manor Farm», but then started to quarrel. Other animals saw the brawl but it was impossible to differ pigs from human beings and human beings from pigs. 
     «Animal farm: a fairy story» is a thought-provoking novel which helped me to see my country’s story from the other’s perspective. It was easy to read but it was not so easy to comprehend.  You can argue with the author’s opinion or to be at odds with him. Anyway, it is absolutely necessary to read.
