The argument concludes that the spirit of sporting competition has been destroyed by the amount of money now associated with most sports. Thisis an unquestionable fact that money nowadays is an important part of peoples' life including such aspects as education, medical aid, vacationand sport. However, it is not so compelling that money has a negative influence on the spirit of sporting competition.First of all, it is widely known that money is a powerful stimulus for people. Sportsmen are people too, they need to secure their families andwhile their salary is in the direct relation with their track records, it would be more profitable to leave all rivals behind them and get thewell-earned money. So my position is that money does not destroy the spirit but makes it even more powerful.Secondly, everybody knows that it is very hard and dangerous to go in for professional sport; sportsmen must train very intensive in order to besuccessful. In the beginning of their career sportsmen have no confidence of success, but they still keep on training. There are many cases whensportsmen even need to spend their own money on equipment and team practice sessions. A good example of a devotion to sport is a story aboutDmitry Malyshko, Russian biathlonist, who had been buying ski and rifle on his own money for years until he finally managed to find himself inthe national team. Now he competes with the greatest biathlonists from all over the world and has a good salary but all this is a result of hisstrong will and desire to be a champion, not to earn easy money. Sport is not only a job but a vocation because nobody in his right mind wouldwaste money and ruin his health just in order to earn more money in the future which may not happen at all because of the strong rivalry. Butsportsmen are not ordinary men and women, they are people with great will and clear aims. No matter what, they are trying to be the best, toovercome all their troubles and gain a victory over their rivals and themselves.In sum, I believe that, the argument's main flaw is its too broad generalization. However, it might sounds more considerable if author chooseone concrete sport and specify what he means saying that money destroys spirit of sporting competition. But the way it was presented, theargument does sportsmen an injustice without explaining this claim.