‘Cloud Atlas’ by David Mitchell
Review by Gleb Nikolaev

Young American notary sailing across the Pacific at the times of the Gold Rush; famous composer’s talented apprentice in 1930s’ Belgium; female journalist in the desolate Californian town in 1975; elderly British vanity press publisher in the present day; defunct clone from an Asian megalopolis in the distant future; post-apocalyptic Hawaiian shepherd. What can there possible be in common between all these people? David Mitchell gives us the answer in his brilliant page-turner ‘Cloud Atlas’ where everything is interconnected and the world is not as simple as it seems to be.
By opening this book one buys a return ticket to the rabbit hole, as the narration goes deeper and deeper through layers of reality, but eventually ventures back to where everything has begun. While tracing these six stories, which are absolutely different and at first sight unrelated to each other, a reader can eventually find characters turning the very same pages - and sometimes they even go in advance, keeping us intrigued and thrilled.
Not only the author experiments with different eras, locations and characters, but also he varies narration manners and even the genres of the pieces – from classic crime novel to post-apocalyptic fantasy. All the genre stamps are present, yet Mitchell shows them in way slightly different from what we are used to seeing.
The book begins and ends with the story of a young lawyer Adam Ewing, written in the format of personal diary. Upon finishing his affairs on remote Chatham Islands in 1850, Ewing proceeds in his long journey to California on ‘Prophetess’, a small trans-Pacific ship. Most of the action is set there during the voyage as Ewing establishes relations with the ship’s crew and passengers and with time learns a new perspective on the world and people around him.
This very diary is read in 1931 by Robert Frobisher, a musical prodigy, who was disowned by his own father for his unseemly lifestyle. To get back on his father, Robert decides to gain renown via becoming an apprentice of old composer Vyvyan Ayrs in Zedelghem (Belgium), who has lost the necessary condition to be able to write down his music. Together they write a sextet called ‘Cloud Atlas’ that gave its name to the book, but with time more and more disagreements start to occur between them. This story is presented in Frobisher’s letters to his lover, Rufus Sixsmith.
Sixsmith also appears in the next story, written as a mystery novel, set in 1975 in California. He reveals to the journalist Luisa Rey his suspicions about a nuclear plant that is built next to the town by an influential megacorporation. Shortly after he is murdered, and this causes Luisa to start her own investigation.
Luisa Rey’s adventure is the plot of one of the many books that pass through the hands of Timothy Cavendish, an aged British publisher in our days. Accidentally he crosses paths with mafia and is obliged to flee, but as he comes begging for help to his brother, the latter, having some scores to settle, puts Timothy into a nursing home. Cavendish is not content with this custody so he plans a way to escape.
The Cavendish’s story has been filmed and a copy is held in possession of Sonmi-451, a clone genetically engineered to serve so-called ‘pureblood society’ in distant future, who has rebelled against her creators. Precise date is not specified but what we know is that a major technological cataclysm (known as Skirmishes) has made inhabitable most of the world except for some parts of Asia. The narrative is first-person as Sonmi is being interrogated by government official after being arrested for igniting the riot.
The last, outermost piece is the reminiscences of an old man called Zachry who lives in the post-apocalyptic future where the global calamity has devastated almost everything of what remained after the Skirmishes and where people lead a primitive prehistorical lifestyle. He tells a story of his youth when he encountered a strange outsider Meronym and had to accompany her in a dangerous journey. Sonmi-451 is considered a goddess among Zachry’s people, and he and his son rewatch the tape of her orison for many times. 
‘The Cloud Atlas’ is entirely unlike everything that has been written, but at the same time it resembles almost everything in the modern literature, and in this is the main charm of it. But it would be a mistake to perceive the book only as a six-in-one page-turner and a successful stylization (which it definitely is). It also raises a lot of different issues as characters come to find the true meaning of such substantial matters as true friendship, love, trust. And it concerns many ever-actual global topics on the other plane: ethics of cloning, slavery, intercultural relations, environmental issues… Everyone will find something worth thinking about in ‘Cloud Atlas’, and it has a potential for infinite rereading, which makes it an absolute must-read of our days.
