Critique on John Lyons' "Homonymy and polysemy; lexical and grammatical ambiguity"
In the second chapter of his well-known textbook Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction, John Lyons investigates the conditions when homonymy causes ambiguity. He establishes the notion of absolute and partial homonymy and three conditions which absolute homonyms should satisfy. If homonyms satisfy only one or two conditions they are called partial homonyms.  
This division is reasonable, but the description is quite imprecise. First of all, the author does not mention that he is only dealing with lexical homonymy. The backgrounds and consequences of the grammatical homonymy are different from the backgrounds and consequences of lexical homonymy, so they should be regarded separately. Secondly, he mentions that the three conditions are logically independent which means that partial homonyms can be divided into classes depending on which of the conditions they satisfy. However, he does not specify whether these classes should be treated differently. He actually argues that partial homonyms can only cause ambiguity in special grammatical and lexical conditions, but I think that the ability to cause ambiguity may also depend on the class to which the partial homonyms belong.  
In addition, regarding the conditions of ambiguity the author considers only one example ('found' - 'to find' and 'found' - 'to found'). As he mentions, the conditions are very complicated and various, therefore some other examples, both from English and other languages, would be helpful.  
Then Lyons regards polysemy. He claims that there are two criteria to distinguish homonymy and polysemy: the etymology and the relatedness of meaning. However, he does not specify whether the relatedness of meaning should be based on some semantic criteria developed by linguists or on the speaker's intuition which can be investigated statistically. Then he claims that the etymological criterion in general supports the native speaker's intuition about particular lexemes. However, there are cases when these two contradict each other. He does not explain how we should deal with these cases, or which criterion is more relevant. He also does not mention whether there are any other criteria which can be approved in these cases. Finally, there are no reasons why we have to distinguish between homonymy and polysemy altogether. 
To summarize I would say that in this chapter Lyons succeeded in providing basic information about homonymy and its connection to ambiguity. However, some more examples and more precise statements would improve his arguments.


