John Lyons. Componential analysis. In Linguistic Semantics. pp. 107-114	
Componential analysis is a method of providing meanings of lexemes basing on their semantic features. This technique, which was originally used in phonology, was successfully accepted later in semantics. Componential analysis implies classification of words by decomposing their sense into minimal discrete parts. For example, the word boy could be represented as a certain combination of factors: "boy" = "human"& male & not adult", similarly, the word girl consists of another combination: 'girl' = "human & not male& not adult". This is how componential analysis works and helps to see basic underlining meanings of words.
	Although componential analysis might be useful for certain semantic fields, it could fail in describing and classifying other groups of words.
	First, there are very rough semantic distinctions. Lexical decomposition implies constricted forms of analyzing that could include binary systems. However, binary systems are not always a good method for semantic fields. For example, there is a binary describing system of age: 'adult' and 'not adult'. Nevertheless, there could be some problems with describing such words as 'devushka'. The semantic meaning of this word implies that the girl is already not a child but not yet a woman so she could not be defined by the criterion "not adult" and "adult" as well. In this case, additional descriptions are needed. 
Secondly, explaining semantic interactions is implausible. For instance, consider the sentence: 'she is a woman'. The word 'woman' could be defined as 'human&female&adult'. If the word 'real' is added in the sentence ('she is a real woman'), it is impossible to say to which word from the sentence it refers: whether it is a real human, a real female, or a real adult. Nevertheless, it is supposed that the word is not linked to a certain component of the word "woman", but it adds a special meaning that she is a woman who has particular characteristics like beautiful, with  good manners, well-dressed. Therefore, it would be significant if methods of describing semantic interaction were studied.
 Thirdly, definitions could fail in explaining metaphoric meanings of words. For example, the word 'cat', which is defined as "feline&adult", could be used in reference to a woman whose behavior could be described in such words as irritating, sly and capricious. However, the original definition does not reflect this meaning of the word. In addition, the word 'kitten' differs from 'cat' only by the criterion of age: "kitten"= "feline& not adult", but this word has totally different metaphorical usage. We could say that a person behaves like a kitten when he/she is tender, affectionate and very kind. That is why the rules of specifying metaphorical meaning of words are not sufficient in componential analysis. 
	To sum up, componential analysis has disadvantages and restrictions in its application that means it cannot reach the main aim of describing every word and explaining sense-relations between lexemes. However, the method has played a significant role in developing different areas of semantics, like generative and structural.
