Summing up the debate by opposition deputy (Makhlina Ekaterina)

The motion: “Education system based on curricula and standardized testing leads to establishment of indoctrination of the young, which only prepares them for life of conformity”.

As a member of opposition, I strongly believe, that this statement is wrong for the following reasons:
Nowadays practically all education systems are based on some standards. All these standards include curriculum and standardized testing. From this point of view, we can consider education system as a framework, which in some way limits children. So, as most people in the modern world value freedom as an inalienable human right, it is easy to take this framework as an absolute evil. What we want is to make people ‘think outside the box’ (and our opponents have mentions this idiom several times) considering this problem. Let us look on the development of the word before the moment human begin to exist. As ancient Greeks said, it all had started with the Chaos.  And in a sense they were right. Because what humanity is trying to do throughout its existence is to organize the world around.  People have created states, laws, economic system and education system itself. From this point of view, systematization and frameworks do not look as something obviously bad anymore. Now it is easier to consider the frameworks as something that maintain our freedom. For example, law system, that in fact limits us a lot, in the same time keep us safe and thereby maintain our freedom. As for education system, we believe that that it does not limit person in his desire to be unique and creative, but gives him knowledge he can based on and shows him a starting point. Our opponents have made a statement: ‘Education system’s frameworks limit us, and it is essential to think out of the box’. In this moment I want to ask them: ‘If there is no box, the chances to look out of it are incredibly small, aren’t they?’
In addition, I want to discuss some disadvantages of modern education systems, which our opponents have mentioned. They have said, that marks and good diploma are more important for students that knowledge itself. Firstly, I do not think that this is completely true (because there are too many people around me who actually love learning and do not pay a lot of attention to the marks). Secondly, this disadvantage emerges not because system is standardized, but because it is not ideal yet and marks do not always show real knowledge. Our opponents have also mentioned that standards should not be used because people are different and cannot be measured the same way. However, they also have mentioned, that cooperation is more effective that working on your own. Of course, we agree with this last statement. Nevertheless, we find it important to understand, that common standards are the basis of cooperation. It is simple to understand on the example with measuring the length: the common standard of measure helps us to compare the distance between USA and Brazil with the distance between USA and Canada. However, this measurement do not really shows all the information (even if one distance is longer, it could be easier to overcome because of the other factors). But still, it give us some information that is really useful and can be understandable both in USA, Brazil and Canada, because everyone knows what 4054 kilometers means, as ‘kilometer’ is worldwide known standard of measurement.
To sum up, I want to emphasize, that our opposition team does not find the current education system ideal and as our opponents do, we consider some disadvantages that could be improved. However, in opposite to our opponents, we believe, that standards are actually do not limit the person, but make the frameworks that help to develop himself and to step up beyond them when he will be ready. And as a member of the team, I reckon that we have proved this statement. 
