Does educational system based on curriculum and standardized testing leads to establishing the system of indoctrination of the young, which only prepares them for life of conformity? Educational systems in many countries still leave much to be desired. The problem is extremely urgent, there are both pros and cons, that is why there are a lot of debated devoted to it. The Government side considers such an approach to education as ineffective and not suitable for the requirement of contemporary society. There is a number of reasons for it. 

Firstly, the main disadvantage of such a system is that students are interested in good marks only: they want to have high grade without putting much effort into the studies. Professors are interested in giving good marks to students because the larger the number of students with high grades is the higher the salary a professor gets. So, it becomes a vicious circle. That is why neither students nor professors are interested in reaching truthfully great results in the field of researches and discoveries. 

Secondly, the system like that, on the one hand, is not suitable for students with Down syndrome, Cerebral palsy and other serious diseases who are not able to study with healthy ones and who need individual approach in education, and on the other hand, is not able to provide gifted students with the opportunity to further develop their potential. The framework of educational system based on curriculum and standardized testing does not help educating in this case.
 
Thirdly, such a stable system can not develop students' creativity. To be creative you should have inspiration. So, if there is lack of creativeness in students' works, it means that the system does not inspire them enough. Meanwhile, creative thinking is one of the most important parts in a range of professions like correspondent, designer or architect. Of course, if you are really outstanding, it is possible to achieve a lot being limited by standards and conventions but it does not work for the majority of students. To achieve more they have to break some rules, to “cross the Rubicon”.  

Fourthly, the system, that has not been changing for a while, deprives students of the ability to think critically, to break the conventions. The thing is that really great inventions are always made by breaking the boundaries. If we always agree with some limiting formal rules of the system, we are not able  to develop our world in a right direction. Besides, in this situation we are satisfied by everything surrounding us, so we have no stimulus to create something new and to achieve more then we can being limited by system's framework.

To summarize, the Government side insists on the point that educational system based on curriculum and standardized testing does not give students an opportunity to be creative, to reach a high goal, to try to go beyond some boundaries in order to discover something new. Certainly, the role of rules as a basis is crucial in every system but it is only a basis. It should not limit us in any way. The system can be improved by making it flexible: it should take into consideration interests of different groups of people, should inspire them to do more then just thoughtless learning by heart all the material. If we achieve it, this problem would be solved.
