It’s impossible to realise how long is the way that was made by the scientists. For example, linguistics developed from the general description of grammar to the psycholinguistic researches, which are the attempts to explore the connection between language and human’s mind. Lera Boroditsky is an American linguist who has made an interesting experiment to learn more about the connection between language that is spoken and native speakers’ worldview.
Three pictures were shown to the Indonesian and English respondents. First of those images pictured a men who was about to kick a ball, second – the same men who just kicked the ball, and third – another men who going to kick the ball.  The respondents were asked which two of those three pictures are more similar. Indonesians chose the ones with the same actor, whereas English speakers preferred the ones with the same action. So we can suggest that English speakers picked out pictures related by the same action or, precisely, by the same tense. English speakers often express the subtleties of meaning with the help of verb’s voice, tense and aspect. It seems like in Indonesian nouns take a more important place in a clause than verbs, also, maybe they are more productive than verbs and lack of tenses is compensate by other parts of speech.
Moreover, we can make a suggestion that Indonesian speakers chose two pictures with the same person because they’re kind of a story, they have cause-and-effect relation, while English speakers tend to notice visual similarity of objects, but this idea needs a lot of researches to be proved.
In conclusion, I want to say that researches like these one are important. First of all, it can erase the cultural borders made by the differences between languages, which will be very helpful in the context of globalisation.  Moreover, psycholinguistic and neirolinguistic both are very interesting parts of linguistic with the great future, because they can help to people to realise how actually the human’s brain works. This knowledge may lead the scientist even further to the creation of artificial intelligence comparable to the human's and the other great explorations that will help people in the future.
