Telling lies has always been one of the greatest problems in the world. The solution to this problem seems quite simple: we should always tell the truth. However, what the truth actually is? And should we be honest in all the situations, despite the circumstances? Let us consider the possible answers to these questions. May our conclusion based on this answers bring us nearer to the truth.
It may seem unobvious at first, but in many situations it is hard to make a distinction between the truth and a lie. To start with, truth has many facets, such as facts, judgments and feelings. Unlike facts, judgments and feelings about the problem usually change during our life. Every variant of them appears to be true, as we feel it is true at the time. We can consider facts to be the fragments of truth, and everyone makes their conclusions about these facts by their own. Moreover, there are countless ways of interpreting a single situation. Most people simply call ‘the truth’ the way they tend to believe in. Besides, people’s behavior often depends on the circumstances, for example, on the people around and on the place they are at. Nevertheless, we could not claim all people are untrue and insincere in most situations of their life. Therefore, the truth can be different.
Sometimes the consequences of telling the truth may be so unpleasant or even terrible, that it is wiser to lie instead. Apparently, there are a few such cases in politics. Firstly, politicians are obliged to lie to protect people from terrorists. This reason, however, can be basely used for concealing information not related to areas of national security. Secondly, the government could tell lies in order to protect the economy from total breakdown. The third case of concealing the truth ‘justifiably’ is saving one’s life. The main aim for journalists, on the other side, is to get in print the things politicians want to hide. Of course, the journalists should take into account all the possible risks, including invasion on the privacy of people.
Let us think of less dramatic situations. For instance, the truth in poetry and writing deals with what one actually feels and what one would like to feel. Thus, being honest in the work is the main factor of its success. Another example is lying to the colleagues. It often seems inevitable to many people. Taking care of the opinions about the co-workers without being dishonest, though, seems quite possible. Here we come to the main excuse for lying. People often lie not to hurt others, especially, their close friends and relatives. Although it may be painful, telling the truth usually is the best decision one can take.
To conclude, I would like to argue that there are so many different angles of the problem of telling the truth. The choice of telling the truth or a falsehood can lead to completely unexpected changes. However, there is one thing possible to all of us: everyone can be honest to himself.
