Neverwhere by Neil Gaiman
Neverwhere, an urban fantasy novel by Neil Gaiman, a famous British author and scriptwriter, takes us into the marvellous world of the city of London – or, rather, the London Below. It tells a story of a man, whose life and views change rapidly during a sequence of events that directly followed one peculiar encounter.
A clerk named Richard Mayhew has recently moved to London from a small town in Scotland in order to build his career. He is a quite successful young man with an apartment, a job and a pretty fiancée. 
Life seems to be very simple to him, until one day, when walking with his fiancée he comes across a badly wounded girl and, much to his own surprise, decides to help her. That was the turning point in his life. Richard finds himself being involved in some shadowy business, which led him directly into the enigmatic London Below.
This place appears to be inhabited by all kinds of strange characters. The girl he saved – her name was Door – turned out to have broken into a run, because some odd couple – an infamous duet of assassins, Messrs Croup and Vandemar – are after her special ability to open any door. Some time ago, they murdered her whole family, and she is determined to find out the identity of the plotter and bring him to justice. Door is brave and strong.
Then there is Marquis de Carabas, cunning and skillful citizen of the London Below. Despite him being a man full of guile, he wins reader’s sympathy, as he is loyal to the word he had once given to the Door’s father and comes to her aid in her time of need.
We also meet Hunter – the greatest warrior of the London Below, whom Door hires as a personal bodyguard. She has her secrets, as do many in this dark world – Hunter seeks glorious victory in the battle with the legendary Beast of London. This has long been a dream of her, and she is ready to do anything for it to come true.
Each of these characters strike with their charisma. They almost feel alive, and it is a great pleasure to follow their adventures. They really make you worry and long to see what happens next.
As for the city itself, it is a place full of many secrets and as many dangers, both visible and hidden. On the face of it, the London Below is a haven for thieves, thugs, tramps and scum of the society in general. 
But then, bit by bit, as I got to know the city and its habitants better, I discovered its different side. It is a haven for those who could not find their place in the world above. This place has its own rules and morals; it might be cruel, but it is attractive in its special way. 
One does not waste words here, as one does not break a promise; the debts are always met. There is also much to amaze an average individual from the world above. For instance, a genuine angel keeps an eye on this city, and rats are to be treated as noblemen.
There is something in the city that makes me want to visit it despite all the jeopardy I might come across. It bewitches me with its mysteries, secrecy and magic that hovers in this place. 
As the story unfolds, we find out more about our heroes and follow their development. They meet many perils on their path to the goal, and learn something new, sometimes quite unexpected, about each other. Richard will eventually come to the question whether the life he had was indeed something he truly desired.
So, if you feel willing to uncover the secrets of the London Below and to know what decision does Richard finally make – Neverwhere welcomes you to its world, but be careful!
