A problem-solution essay.
Harmful effects of tourism.
Turquoise water, soft sand, snow-white descents, stunning sights... That is what we imagine when we hear the word tourism. But is the reality so wonderful? Scientists and environmentalists don't think so...
The first big problem is environmental. Such a big number of different species of plants and animals are disappearing, forests are cut down. Why?The answer is simple:people really don't care about what is happening in the world, and only small groups   of environmentalists try to  Tourism companies build lots of different centers for tourists (hotels, entertainment parks, swimming pools, spa centers, exhibition centers and so on) and the only reason to do this is to get a lot of money. 
The other big problem is cultural. The general event in our modern world is  commercialization of cultures. When people travel they always bring something with them, which is closely connected with the country or is supposed to be a part of it's culture.
It is not bad when people buy souvenirs, but if it is a work of art or something else and it is spread all over the world, people should pay more attention to this issue.  In addition, there are a lot of cultural conflicts between local people and tourists. It is mostly caused by   misunderstanding, but people don't even try to understand the locals. Why some tourists behave like  the uncivilized and show their disrespect, when they travel to other countries?These problems are personal, but in some cases it grows into  an  international conflicts. Misunderstanding is the reason of such disgusting behavior or it is only an excuse?
Nevertheless, the experience a person gets from a trip is always unforgettable! To travel is a good way to put into practice language and  to improve it. Besides, exploring a new culture makes people more intelligent and broad-minded. Knowledge which is obtained from a trip is incomparable to watching TV or reading books. A very important advantage of tourism is that one can relax. Some people like active rest, some prefer lying on the beach, some like to communicate, others choose to stay at home and do nothing. It helps to escape daily routine and bright impressions will be left for the whole life. 
Returning to our main topic, there is such a great number of issues and we can discuss them all the time, but when do we start to take actions?The main problem is to change something in ourselves. Everything would be easier if we understand that we can influence it. Then it will be good, if the governments of  the countries, where tourism is highly developed, help people with solving these problems: they should create some rules in beach areas or in tourist centers and places of interest, for example, not to disturb animals in beaches or national parks , not to throw  a litter, not to let children play with wild animals and not to let them swim in the water alone and so on .To keep off cultural conflicts people should be more kind and polite to each other, and the most safe and interesting decision is to prepare for traveling abroad by reading books and magazines about a country , it's customs, traditions and culture. 
May be, if people learn to listen to each other and to help other people, the life on the Earth will be better soon.
