Lyons, J. (1995). Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction. Cambridge University Press, 54-60
The distinction between homonymy and polysemy is often considered to be one of the most arguable questions in contemporary semantics. This might partly be due to the lack of preciseness in their traditional definition. 
In his chapter John Lyons attempts to improve on the traditional definitions of homonymy and polysemy and to clarify the difference between them. He proposes an enhanced classification of homonyms and formulates the criteria that distinguish homonymy and polysemy.
Lyons proposes homonyms as a scalar gradable system. He introduces three conditions, which may help to identify the type of homonyms. These conditions are:
1) Homonyms are unrelated in meaning;
2) All their forms are identical;
3) The identical forms are grammatically equivalent.
Moreover, the major requirement, which has to be met, is that the homonyms have at least one identical form. Thus, if the homonyms satisfy all three conditions, they result in absolute homonymy. Otherwise, if the homonyms satisfy up to two conditions, they may be assumed to be partial homonyms. The author illustrated that the supposed homonyms will gradually pass each step in order to focus on the differences, which may appear. 
The system of criteria introduced by John Lyons seems to be convincing. Though the chosen parameters definitely improve traditional definitions of homonyms, they are not sufficient enough. Apparently, some areas were not included into this system, such as regular homonymy, their derivatives and sociolinguistic aspect concerning native speaker's perception. The estimation of these issues may help to be more precise, while drawing a distinction. For instance, regular homonymy appeals to an etymology of certain words, thus, it would be possible to take into account the degree of relatedness. Derivatives would reflect the ability for productivity of the lexeme. Finally, the sociolinguistic polls would assume the suggestions of an average native speaker, because the language is not only strict grammar rules, but also speaker's attitude to them.
Another key criticism of the chapter is that the author emphasizes on the disadvantages of traditional definitions, but he does not offer his own. Practically, it would have been useful, if Lyons had formulated advanced notions of homonymy and polysemy on the basis of his suggestions. According to his conclusion about words' origin, the notions may be presented in such a way:
Homonymy is the phenomenon of words, which have an identical orthographical form, but different meaning. These words must have related origin as well.
Polysemy is the phenomenon of words, which have an identical orthographical form, but they do not have any related connections between themselves, equally in meaning and origin.
Despite the above criticism, the John Lyons' work contains significant exploration of the differences between homonymy and polysemy, which may become the first step to the future researches of this area.
