Critique.
In this chapter John Lyons told us about componential analysis. This is a method typical of structural semantics which analyzes the structure of a word's meaning.It was established in the 1950th and based on the ideas of N. Trubetzkoy.
In componential analysis help is to explane meaning of the words with the some simple parts. Lyons give us a traditional examples. The word "man" would be explained as 'human', 'male', 'adult' and the word "woman" would be 'human', 'female', 'adult'. Moreover, sometimes for predicates and other lexemes representing relation the componential analysis uses functions. For example, "father" is (x,y)'parent', (x)'male' and "kill" is (x,(y)'die')'cause'. The asset of the componential analysis is its simplicity, the absence of syntax. Instead there are elements of mathematics.
Generally this method used it computer analysis, for example, semantical markup in corpora. The componential analysis can be exceedingly convenient for manipulating in computerized work. This method is very laconism and it is easy to searching. If we need to find all mention of food in some book, we can do it only search the seme 'food'. Moreover, for further simplifying the formulae the compenential analysis uses negation ('~') in binary features, such as 'male'. Now, "woman" can be described as 'human', '~male', 'adult'.
But this method have many deficiencies. At first, it doesn't take into account metaphors .For example, when we told " she is a real women" , we mean that this women have some feature which associated this the women, not that she is 'human', 'female', 'adult'. Another minus is that this method based on English language. Features are determined in English and sometimes this makes some of them lose universality by reason of relativity. For example, division by the binary feature 'adult' is not unambiguous from the point of culture, as 'becoming adult' can be understood differently depending on the culture.
We can't explain all words componential analysis. We have a lot of problems with emotions and feeling. Furthermore, in different language there are some words that don't have equivalents in other language. For example, there are not equivalent in Russian to English word "angry". It is hard to pass all inflection of this emotion.
In spite of all minuses now componential analysis is one of popular and progressive methods. Computer technologies develop and it is possible to correct some mistakes and make this method more expedient.