Animals can be used for the benefits of humans or animal rights have to be protected?Modern Democratic society is believed to protect all the minorities. But aren't animals our four-legged brothers? Aren't they the most oppressedminority? For ages, we've been using them for our needs and amusement. Some people think that it is in the nature of things, are they right?There are a lot of organizations, protecting animal rights, like P.E.T.A. They main aim isn't to give equal rights to humans and animals, but topromote an idea that we have no right to use animals for our purposes, however frivolous They might be.Firstly, animals are often wiped for failing to follow human rules. For example, Mao declared total elimination of rats, flies, mosquitoes, andsparrows in China and it was both cruel and senseless - it damaged the ecological balance by unintentional stimulation crop-eating insects toproliferate.Humans use animals in hundreds of ways: meat, animal experimentation, fur, circuses and many others. Animal activists propagandize  that peopledon't need meat, fur or circuses, indeed, vegans have robust health. As for animal experimentation, it is a common place, that testing ofcosmetics and household products is unnecessary.Many would also say that scientific experimentation on animals is evil even for the sake of science. But when there is an immediate, obviousapplication to human health, it is necessary because  sufferings of animals are justified by saving millions of human lives. That bring us tothe idea of suitability of controlling animals' life.If we turn to tradition approach to this theme, Christian religion assumes that animals may have soul, but it is only alive while animal's bodyis alive. Christians believe that animals were created by God for man's good and aren't intended for the eternal life. Religious beliefs areconsidered to be subjective and personal, but there is some reason for such judgment. Domestic animals were cultivated for so great amount ofcenturies, that they can't live without humans - if farmers would free all the hens, for example, and put them into the forests, the birds wouldbe killed by predators or would starve to death. Hen was spread worldwide by humans, and that's why domestication was useful for these species.Animals don't make decisions but also they don't have any responsibility. It's only we who "become responsible, forever, for what we havetamed". That comes to the great ecological belief, I think - we live in a really cohesive world, were humans and animals benefit from each otherand strive for a total symbiosis.