I want to present you a book by John Grisham “A Time to Kill”. John Grisham is a well-known American author of legal thrillers. Interesting thing about him is that he has law degree and he worked as criminal lawyer for about ten years. “A Time to Kill” is his debut and most famous book.
It is a legal thriller settled in 1980ths in small town Clanton, Mississippi. The main character is Jake Brigance, a successful mid-aged criminal attorney who gets the capital murder case of Carl Lee Hailey, black veteran of Vietnam. Carl Lee has killed two white rednecks, drug pushers who have raped his ten years old daughter. He killed them during their trial right in courthouse. He did not reject the accusation and admitted he had been planning his revenge. It putted him and Jake Brigance in a difficult situation.
One more difficulty is the appearance of Ku Klux Klansmen, who arrived in Clanton and are trying to influence the trial. The black people from all over the county are in their turn giving support to Carl Lee. Government sends soldiers to Clanton to prevent the conflict.  The process becomes famous in the US and attracts loads of journalists to the town. The situation becomes critical.
Jake Brigance uses all his talent and help of his friends to get his client free. However, the District Prosecutor Rufus Buckley, very experienced lawyer who has won many capital murder cases is doing his best to oppose him.
The book explores a moral problem: whether a person who killed the rapists of his daughter should be set free or no one has a right to make justice himself. It also considers the problem of racism.
Characters of the book are well written and you start to sympathize with them from the very beginning. The delineation of the rural Clanton is bright and believable. The plot is gripping. Its core, the Carl Lee’s trial is written with many interesting details. The climax of the book, the crucial point of the trial will not let you stay indifferent.
If you like twisted stories and do not afraid of hard scenes, I think you will have a great time reading this book. It is a real page-turner and classic of its genre.
