In the past, shopping used to be domestic routine. Nowadays, it has become a hobby for some people. I think this trend is not generally good, although in some aspects It can be positive.
I believe that doing shopping too often is a waste of time. Of course, buying food, clothes and other basic things is unavoidable. But a lot of people buy things they don’t actually need. One could argue that it is a person’s own problem if he or she spends too much money on unnecessary goods. I’m sure that it is a global problem, as the more people buy, the more is produced. Producing goods takes power, and generating power pollutes the atmosphere and needs the resources. So, that’s why the problem of each particular person becomes the world’s problem. One more negative side effect of people’s doing shopping it the necessity to get rid of those things when they aren’t useful anymore or of the package. Rubbish is a pollution factor too. Finally, shopping doesn’t generally do any good to the person, while a hobby usually leads to creating something or self-improvement. What’s more, possessing too many things can make a person obsessed with his or her possessions, which is obviously harmful fot the personality.
On the other hand, the desire to be beautiful, stylish or up-to-date has always existed. That’s why people buy clothes and beauty products, gadgets, modern cars and so on. For some people, who need to make a good impression, it is vital to surround themselves with the right things – it can be the matter of their job. Most people who enjoy doing shopping find it an easier way to feel happy than doing any sport or having some creative hobby. Shopping itself may be a way to do excersise, because walking is good for health. Nevertheless, the sellers become rich if more shopping is done – at this point of view shopping as a hobby is benefitial.
On the whole, in my opinion, doing shopping as a hobby isn’t positive neither for the people nor for the world in general. However, there are some good points of it.
