People cannot imagine a world without education. Some people believe that tests are the best way to check the student's knowledge. Others are convinced that such exams don't always accurately measure the level of knowledge and also it has lack of creativity.
Now educational system is directed only to receive good marks and results. And it also applies to teachers, professors, pupils, and students. If you are student, you are interested to have good diploma to find a good job. We are interested to have good place in life and we think universities can help with it. If you are teacher, you need pupils’ good results, because their salary depends on it. Also it reduces creativity. Education has frames and students cannot do what they want, they can only do what they are required to. We should do more own projects because practice helps better to understand and remember knowledge. But what do we have at the educational institution? We have only examination questions or any tests that we learn at the last moment. Noam Chomsky said that “we've all had the experience of "acing a test" and forgetting everything two weeks later”. Unfortunately, it’s true. You might think poets do follow standards but it does not make them similar. But when they lived, the universities were the main source of knowledge. They were interested in it and they had motivation. They made discoveries. And now we often can read one book or look for some information on the internet, take a test, get a mark, and eventually graduate with this result. Studies also are oriented at drilling for exams. 
There is nothing more important than education. It should be the process of helping people to realize what they have, what they want, and what they need to do, because we live in a fast-paced world. We cannot know what children will need to know in the future. Therefore, the primary purpose of education should be to learn how to learn.
In conclusion, I would like to say the purpose of education should be to prepare children for life, so everyone may connect and contribute his/her unique ideas and abilities to society. University motto should be “It doesn't matter what we cover, it matters what you discover”.
