
Review

John Lyons. Linguistic Semantics: An Introduction. Homonymy and Polysemy: Lexical and Grammatical Ambiguity;Pp.54-60.

The distinction between homonymy and polysemy has always been a subtle point in semantic analysis.  John Lyons, in his well-known textbook Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction, explores the term of homonymy, investigating its types and relationships with polysemy.
At the beginning, Lyons criticizes the traditional understanding of the term "homonymy" on the ground that it is imprecise. However, he admits that only a slight improvement can be brought to it due to the complexity of the factors that should be also taken into consideration, such as "grammatical equivalence".  Further, he introduces two different types of homonymy: 'absolute' and 'partial', those represent lexical and grammatical ambiguity on the different levels. Then the author continues with examining the effectiveness of etymological and relatedness of meaning criteria, that are traditionally applied to distinguish between homonymy and polysemy. Ultimately, he arrives to conclusion that those criteria rely heavily on native speakers' intuitive knowledge and introspective judgments, thus cannot be considered as reasonably sufficient. 
Leaving aside the positive developments which Lyons' study added to our knowledge of lexical relations, the problem of the polysemy-homonymy distinction could have received greater coverage. To begin with, the author does not explain why it is a matter of paramount importance to differentiate between these two terms. For instance, the study would have benefited if author mentioned, different branches of applied linguistics: like lexicography, foreign language teaching and information retrieval, where it is essential to understand the problem. Therefore, it is appropriate to mention here that the issue fairly loses its topicality, as it's not abundantly clear for readers why it is a vexed question. Another omission is that while the homonymy is the problem of the main discussion, the issue of polysemy itself is highlighted on a superficial level, with only vague definition and lacking of examples. In addition, information given in the chapter is partly outdated and rather provides an overlook of this problem, rather than reliable linguistic source. 
With all things considered, present chapter of Lyon's book is easily accessible for the firsthand acquaintance with this gripping issue. And moreover, it arouses interest for further reflection on that subject, as some important questions remain unanswered.
