Transport in the Future
      Nowadays modern technologies are developing. Many fantasies of science fiction writers have already become our reality. For instance, in XVII century people can only dream about modern planes and can not even imagine spacecrafts. Today we constantly use all transport opportunities, we have. Means of transport are progressing and who know how our life will be look like tomorrow.
      It's not a secret that mankind has many modes of transport, but also many problems with them. For example, cars have a bad influence on our environment, because of the CO2 emission. Today we are tackling the big issues of cars and environment; we are pushing fuel efficiently to the new heights. With new technologies we are reducing and eliminate harmful impact of cars on our environment. There are many projects of electric cars, which are safe for environment. Another global problem is traffic jam. Today we are about 800 millions cars on the road worldwide, cars are everywhere. We don't want to waste our time sitting in traffic or looking for parking spots. We need to build smart cars, build smart roads, smart parking, and smart public transportation systems. Electric vehicles will be able to communicate with each other, find free road without traffic or reserve parking place. It will help to avoid traffic problems. I believe that someday mankind produce flying cars. When it happen, we won't need to build roads and highways anymore.
      There is a lot more of space to explore and in the future, I believe, we'll be able to move in space free, like we do it on Earth. Even today we hear about space tourists, in the future we will go to the Mars or Venus on vacations. Unfortunately today people can't do it, because spacecrafts haven't got enough energy to fly long distances, so we should look for an alternative form of power.
      In conclusion, I would like to add, that all means of travel make our life easier, but also lead to different problems (like pollution of an atmosphere or traffic jam, etc.).  Anyway I'll be waiting to new modes of transport.
