If you say a word 'shopping', our grandmothers or grandfathers will immedeatly imagine queues, heavy bags and rude sellers. Although nowadays there is still much in shopping from this heritage of the Soviet Union, some things has changed significantly and a lot of our contemporaries regard shopping as a popular pastime. The tricky question is whether this is a positive tendency or not.
On the one hand, the stereotype, especially for men, is that shopping as a hobby have glamorous blonds and dull-witted personalities. They often complain of their wives who spent all their salaries on the 20th skirt or dress. But there is the flip side of this passion.
First, and it was proved by the scientist, choosing and fitting of the fine clothes helps to relieve stress. This quality is of high importance in big cities, where stress has become a part of quotidian activities.
Second, if a person prefers to spend time in shopping malls, they will always provide a good advice on where to by the best or the cheapest thing. For the husbands this quality may even help to save more money than they give their wives for shopping.
And the last, but not the least – shopping may completely change one's fate. It can be demonstrated on the example of my friend. Her name is Anna and from the very early youth she is used to spent almost all of her wages on new things. Once she went to a big shopping center which is very remote from the subway stations. She did not notice how the time passed and when she went out of doors it was in the small hours and the last bus had gone. Only then she realized that she has no more money left in order to go by taxi. While she was standing on the steps and thinking of some solution, a car stopped and a young man asked whether he could bring her home. She agreed and when they arrived he asked for her phone number. They began to date and this summer they are getting married. That is how such a costly hobby can bring a priceless gain.
To conclude, although some can argue that shopping as a hobby is not a positive trend, in my opinion, it has many indubitable advantages and if a person prefers to spend their time by buying anything, this choice is no better and no worse than any other. 
