Reporting
	People round the world are concerned with financial crisis that revealed its full power in the end of 2008. Government representatives of most influential countries assure citizens that the worst part of crisis has been overcome. Meanwhile financial analysts assert that the "bottom" of the crisis is to be reached in fall 2009.
	If we look at reports provided by financial analysts, we can see that they recommend addressing America all the claims as crisis originated there. As reports say, the crisis was caused by high volume of debts that had high part of non-payments. After passing virtual threshold of non-payments, the situation turned into house of cards where many banks had to declare bankruptcy due to lack of money to cover all liabilities. After that, according to analytics, the crisis moved outside America borders as many America banks had transactions with other banks of the world, that's why some financially dependent countries declared default of their liabilities.
	Here in Russia, President Medvedev assured Russian residents that government will take all possible measures to stabilize financial market in the country. After that statement Putin announced that a certain amount of money was allocated to be transferred to industries that have the most difficult financial situation. Later, Putin informed Russian residents about the results of this aid: some anchor industries (industries that provide jobs for more than half of population of a town) in Russia were saved from bankruptcy.
	The most negative part of crisis is that many large companies internally approve "anti-crisis" plans, most of which begin with recommendation to decrease amount of work force. This leads to discharges of up to 30% staff and these actions are widely protested by employees. During the official discussion Putin doubted the idea that large companies should start with discharging employees and urged companies to find methods of cutting their operating costs.
	I think that crisis is difficult for every man of world if he has money but with the help of the government we have more confidence in tomorrow. That's why official governmental announcements of allocated aid are so vital to maintain high morale of most crisis participants.
