Risk plays a significant part in lives of people. Almost every event of a person's life means some kind of risk. When a person takes exams, looks for a job and has an interview or makes a declaration of his/her feelings, there is always a risk of a failure. Another result of a risk is success. Some people tend to believe that to be successful, they should do something they are unfamiliar with, while others seem to stand on the opposite place. However, the result of any action depends on the situation and the person's aims.
Personally, I think that there is always a 50% probability of a failure and, of course, 50% of luck. However, this percentage ratio is tend to change as far as a person's preparedness for a risk changes. If we take as an example sport men and women or thrill-seekers, they are physically prepared to any difficulties on their way of achieving their goal. Businessmen, businesswomen and investors are also prepared for a risk. They learn about companies and their economic situations. Due to the information they get, they try to predict some of the difficulties that they may run up against during the course of their work and minimize the risk of failure. The lower the factors making people fail they have, the higher probability to success they own.
On the other hand, there are people who do not prepare accurately but they still assess risk and become successful. For example, my aunt, Tanya, lived in Kirov for twenty-six years. Once she decided to go to Moscow and find a job. There was a risk that she would lose everything, even a chance to come back. Not every member of the family supported her and believed that she would achieve her goal. Now, Tanya lives with us, works and gets pleasure from what she is doing. She took a great risk and now she enjoys her life. The main quality of such type of people, and at the same time the main cause of their success, is their firm belief in the success and their self-confidence. If people have a clear idea of what to do in order to reach their goals, they will be better motivated because they will expect setbacks and difficulties, but know that they can still achieve success. Without sufficient motivation, goals are reached more slowly.
To sum up, I would like to say that every man should think over the actions he/she accomplishes. If a person believes in his/her own strength and has a strong desire to achieve his/her goal, this person will be successful. Motivation and preparedness to any difficulties are main support in achieving the goal.