 the course of time, the means of getting from one place to another  becom more and more sophisticated. Two hundred years ago no one could even imagine that it would be possible to travel flying above the earth without any difficulty, but now it's quite   to get on a plane and to fly to another city, country or even continent. So let's imagine how the world of transport can improve in the future.

Firstly, some people used to joke that the only way to solve the problem of traffic congestions in Moscow is to   learn how to teleport or to fly. For me, the idea of teleportation sounds quite unreal (but not   unreal), but flying from one place to another looks quite nice. As far as I know, some means of  flying have already been invented - for instance, there're some rocket packs. They look like a quite large sack with small jet engines inside.   who uses this thing should put it on their back and, having switched it on, take off. The most advanced kind of such an engine is called "Martin Jetpack". But using such engines is considered very dangerous, and neither of them are licensed to be used as a mean of transport. After all, I also can understand why - most of this stuff is not secure enough and the use of such things may lead to injuries or to death. As for me, if I had a chance to try a rocket pack now, I would refuse as I wouldn't  take such a risk.

As for teleportation, I am sure that nowadays scientists can't invent a way of instant transportation of things and humans without any movement as they haven't succeeded in transportation of large groups of atoms without any destruction of substance. So it is necessary to  a way to provide safe transportation before working on the idea of teleportation, and now it is too early to predict if teleportation i possible or ot.

However, I do really like the idea of using solar energy for the means of transport. It doesn't sound so  - as teleportation or flying rucksacks and it really may make sense. The supply of fossil fuels is running out, and very soon it may turn out that alternative energy sources will be really vital. The energy provided by the sun is already being used, but, unfortunately, there're still no cars or trains powered by solar energy. I know that some researches are being carried out to invent a way to do it, and, in fact, if they manage to do it, a new era of development of transport will begin. It will solve not only a problem of lack of energy resources but also some ecological problems as air pollution - solar energy technologies are much more environmentally friendly than the traditional ones. 

After all, I would like to say that now no one knows what means of transport will look like in the future. It is unlikely that the revolution in the world of transport will happen  but in fact it's quite unpredictable. Maybe it will in 50 years jetpacks will  as common as cars  now and we will look at ordinary cars and trains with a sense of nostalgia for them - who knows?..



