Fight Club
by Chuck Palahniuk

“The first rule about fight club is
you don't talk about fight club.”

I like the way Palahniuk writes, it's like having someone back you into a corner and not knowing if they want to hit you. The tension is immeasurable. This is the authors magic, the ability to make us feel so much with stripped down and raw language. 
All that need be said is that the story never goes where you expect it too and the final twists — while seeming a bit outlandish at first — ultimately make a great deal of somewhat sickening sense. I also love the way this book is written. The writing's very simple, very to-the-point, but it really has an impact. It's like the book itself is punching you in the face ... which of course, is quite fitting. 

Fight Club is the story of an unnamed narrator, an insomniac yuppie who spends his days helping insurance companies get out of having to pay their claims. He wanders through a meaningless life until he discovers the emotional release of attending therapy groups for people suffering from various deadly diseases — all of which the narrator pretends to have. When the arrival of another "faker", the narrator finds even the shallow comfort of testicular cancer self-help groups has been taken away. Luckily for him, he happens to meet Tyler Durden around this time. And it is Tyler who introduces him to the concept of fighting. From this violent but relatively benign concept, Tyler sets out to build up an even more extreme movement and our narrator finds his own life suddenly spiraling out of control.

When i read this book I find the idea of fighting and destruction attractive. Who hasn’t smashed something and been happy about it? When a fire is burning we throw wood in to keep it going but a lot of it is the desire to see something burn. Fight Club really captures the very male desire for destruction and chaos.

I guess the book comes off as being pretty pessimistic, and maybe that's one downside to it. But at the same time, it didn't make me feel too depressed. Underneath the pessimism there's still a lot of dark humor and wit to the whole thing. And I just thought it did a great job capturing that feeling that we all have––that restlessness when we feel like life is just the same day after day. 

Of course you can’t help but compare the book to the movie. And in saying that I was surprised to learn that Fight Club the movie followed the book faithfully (including dialogue). It is so similar in fact that the book now reads much like a screenplay adaptation, even though it came first. Movies rarely follow the book word for word and subsequently I didn’t enjoy this as much as I’d been expecting to. There wasn’t anything extra here, no added insight into Tyler Durden’s character, no dirty scenes that didn‘t make it into the movie. I just kept picturing Brad Pitt and Edward Norton. 

The afterwards by the author is also very interesting. Detailing how this all started as a 7 page story he wrote when he was bored at work one day (its included as chapter 6 in the book) and then of course he expanded.

I think that everyone should read this book.
