Feminism is a social movement that set oneself the task to equalize women in rights with men. It calls women to rise up. In the broad sense feminism defends the liberty.
One of the most important achievement of that movement is an assurance of the suffrage for women.
It is significant that the term "feminism" does not express a single ideology and within this movement there are many trends.
At the dawn of its existence, feminism set oneself as an object to pay common attention to the fact that women are in the sidetrack and suffer from oppression and injustice. It was an endeavor to defend the liberty, to transform despair into hope.
But with the lapse of time feminists' claims become more and more strange, but the society crack under pressure and satisfy them all. Nowadays women can take up positions traditionally held by men. They can serve in the Army, play hockey, act as a woodcutter.
Some women carry their ideas to the point of absurdity. For example, they are irritated by the men, who let them have a seat in the sweltering and overcrowded transport. And in some countries there are quotas for women in the government institutions, and this means that you can get a job there due to your gender, not your abilities. 
There is an another extreme: some men want to equalize women in duties, leaving out their physiological imperfections.
I hope that the term "feminism" will soon disappear as unnecessary, because people will learn to evaluate each other regardless of gender. Such a scenario South Park creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone predict in point of another serious problem - racial discrimination. In the episode "Chef Goes Nanners" children see in the picture, where the white people hang black only a murder without any racist context. For them the skin color doesn't matter. That is a true racial equality.
To sum it up, I think we must stop to match men and women.
Dear friend,
	I was really pleased to receive your letter, in which you tell me about the contest, established by the magazine "How similar and different we are".
	I'm somewhat surprised that you invited me to participate in this, because I was never enthralled by that movement.
      However, I decided to take part in that competition. I had to read several articles to thoroughly look into the matter. It was an interesting experience, which I hope will be useful to me in the future.
      And what is your point of view on this problem?
