Critical review of John Lyons' chapter Componential analysis in Linguistic Semantics: An Introduction.
John Lyons (1995) Linguistic Semantics: An Introduction. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Pres., pp. 107-117.
Componential analysis is a structural semantic theory, which was firstly introduced in the 1950-s. This theory is also called lexical decomposition because it is used to analyze and describe words by decomposing them into more basic sense components.
Sense components are the semantic features which are believed to be universal in all languages, such sense components as 'male', 'female', 'feline', 'animate', 'adult' illustrate the definition of this term. One of the most well-known examples of componential analysis is the word man which can be described as a set of the sense components: man = 'human&male&adult'. Another sense component 'non-adult' is used to distinguish between the words man and boy therefore the word boy will be described as 'human&male&non-adult', sense components like adult and non-adult , or male and female, are called binary oppositions. Componential analysis is thus an attempt to describe the meaning of lexemes in terms of a universal inventory of semantic components and their possible combinations.
Although componential analysis has some useful applications, for example its principles are the base for the search of semantic connotations in the Corpora; the theory has many theoretical flaws. To begin with, there are many words which practically cannot be described by means of the sense components. For example, the synonyms which define feelings, like 'fear', 'terror', 'horror', 'fright'. While it is more or less clear that horror and terror are more powerful feelings than fear and  fright, it is still unclear how to distinguish between fear and fright without using  synonyms or particular examples.  Therefore it can be argued that the sense components are not enough precise and valid.
The next disadvantage is that it is impossible to explain metaphoric meanings of the words. To illustrate this point, consider the words cat which is by means of componential analysis represented as 'feline & adult' and kitten described as 'feline & non-adult'. The difference between these words is clear in their direct meaning, but when a young woman is depicted by saying that 'she is like a cat', it means that she is graceful and elegant or that she is impulsive, unreliable and independent. But a sentence 'she is like a kitten' has a completely different meaning, describing a young woman as pretty, playful and amusing, and it is obvious that the meaning of the sentence is not connected with any sense component of the words kitten or cat.
All in all, sense components do not seem to be useful and universal in the deeper view, which means that componential analysis cannot reach its aim to explain every word and to make the sense-relations between lexemes absolutely precise. However, this method gave birth to various models in generative and structural semantics, thus it cannot be considered absolutely useless.

