                        FEMINISTS: PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE.
  Probably, each special group of population allocated by racial, sexual, age or other indications has its own heroes fighting for their rights. But the most famous of this social movements is feminism: fighting for rights of women. 
  The idea of equality between men and women was declared the first time in "Therigatha" - one of the sacral scripts of Buddhism. Although, people did not follow to this idea. In many cultures women did not have a lot rights, especially political, that men had and violence against women was often normal in family life. Feminism appeared in the second quarter of XIX century like a reaction to this injustice. Later it was called "The first wave of feminism". Feminists started to become strong in the USA during the Civil war. The organization of feminists called WSPU achieved participation of women in local elections in Britain in 1894. After that feminism became more popular and during the first have of XX century women took all political rights in Europe and the USA. 
  But after 1960 "The second wave of feminism" took place. During this period women were fighting for ability to have the same career like men. It was a battle against the opinion that the main aim of women's life was family. This idea lost the fight in many European countries, but it increased destroying of family there. Because of that this countries have very big problems with birth rate of native people now. Some women even became opponents of this movement.
  Feminism is strong now. But modern feminists mostly try to have not the same quality, but more rights than men. For example, in the USA women can find a job easier than a man. If boss do not employ a women, he may be blamed in sexual discrimination. But he can not to employ a man, if he just did not like him. The most radical feminists want to final destroy the family, but they are losing their power.
  All in all we can say that the feminism was an important part of history. It had a great aim - stop sexual discrimination. But it has already done this and now it is becoming a political game for immoral adventurers.
                                        A THANK YOU NOTE.
Dear, NN!
Thank you for your letter and for the information! It was very important for me to know about this competition. I have just written the article and I am going to send it to the magazine. I tried to write a really good article, so I hope I have a chance to win the competition. If I win, it will be very important for my career. So thank you so much that you let me know about this. I have to go now. I will write you, if I know something about the result of the competition. Best regards.
