One of the unsolved problems of modern Russian linguistic is a lack of a representative, informative and user-friendly dictionary of synonyms. There are several commonly used dictionaries of synonyms, such as Abramov's, Evgenyeva's, Alexandrova's dictionaries, and NOSS; however, they do not satisfy all three criteria. Abramov's dictionary, first published in 1890, contained only synonymic rows themselves, but it did not provide a user with information about semantic and collocational differences and similarities between synonyms; Alexandrova's dictionary had the same problem: although it consists of a reasonable number of synonymic rows, differences between them are not explained anyhow there. Evgenyeva's dictionary was an attempt to solve this problem: all entries in each synonymic row were illustrated with examples from literature that showed the nuances of each word's meaning. The newest Russian dictionary of synonyms is NOSS, in which the semantic and collocational differences and similarities are explained in detail. However, Evgenyeva's dictionary and NOSS are not reader-friendly: nowadays, with the development of computer technologies, people need a dictionary that would quickly give them an exact amount of information that they need, and the classical paper format of the dictionary, such as Evgenyeva's and NOSS, is too heavy and slow for a modern user.
The aim of our course project is to create a pilot version of an informative and easy to use dictionary of synonyms. As a group, we have developed a template for describing each synonymic row (common meaning, differences in meaning, common collocations, differences in collocations, government pattern, examples), and each of us has described 10 synonymic rows. To achieve a better user-friendliness, we decided to use a format of a computer database. The long-term goal of our project is to create a useful database of Russian synonyms that would contain 3000 synonymic entries, and to develop a template and a metalanguage for synonymic rows' description.
