Air pollution influences our lives so much, we can't stay indifferent to the quality of our mood, thinking and, importantly, health. The World Health Organization states that 2.4 million people die each year from causes directly attributable to air pollution, and this number exacerbates every year.
It's time to worry: according to the Carnegie Department of Global Ecology, the percentage of carbon dioxide in the air is increasing at an alarming rate. In the 90's, carbon  emissions dioxide were increasing by about 1.3 percent per year. But since 2000, this figure has been 3.3 percent per year, so if we don't change anything, the situation may take a bad turn.
All these frightening disasters, like the greenhouse effect, smog, ozone hole and acid rain, actually are the results of air pollution. For example, the greenhouse effect is caused by the toxic emissions of the oil combustion. The main enemy of clean air is methane. It is released by the decomposition of the sewage, with the natural gas production  or from waste incineration.
There are huge health effects (i.e. mortality and hospital admissions) on patients suffering from diseases such as chronic bronchitis, emphysema, and some forms of asthma or from cystic fibrosis. Also, a study by the University of Birmingham has shown a strong correlation between pneumonia related deaths and air pollution from motor vehicles. Worldwide  more deaths per year are linked to air pollution than to automobile accidents!
But what can we do? An individual initiative is hardly able to influence the situation. This movement has to be supported by scientists, businessmen, teachers (agitation among the youngsters) and politicians. The first step in solving the problem is monitoring the polluters. The next step has to be held at the legislative level: first, industrialists should be obliged to build treatment plants with their factories, to avoid waste release into the environment. Secondly, all the owners of heavy industry factories should pay high taxes. Moreover, even car drivers should be encouraged to decrease their petroleum consumption and maybe to use bicycles and electrocars.
Whatever the solutions, we'd better think about more global problems - we must make people care about the environment, because while they don't understand all the dangers of mindless lifestyle, we can't help them to save themselves.

