Do the benefits of this mobility outweigh the disadvantages?
Nowadays information technologies have totally become a part of our lives. The usage of technical devices is widespread in educational, work, entertaining and other spheres of human existence.  The development of technology  allows even to do lot of things remotely .Today some  people benefit from this possibility, for example, finding distant  job meanwhile others think that this mobility has a lot of disadvantages.
From my point of view, work outside a workplace has a great number of pluses. First, it is a great opportunity to find a job and have a work experience for students.  Usually, young people are very absorbed with studying, going to universities, doing their homework. Meantime, most of undergraduates need money and, what is more important, work skills that are almost obligatory for a good working place. Working distantly, students can by themselves set an amount of work, time according to their strength. Secondly, it is very profitable for young mothers or social workers, who look after  children,  pensioners, and people with disabilities. These people spend considerable amount of time doing household choirs, but distant job enables them to earn extra money. Moreover, employers have also benefits of this mobility. They can use an perfectly suitable for a certain kind of job worker, who lives in another city or even another country.
However, some people say that distant job is unreliable and does not have fixed responsibilities of employers and employees. They say that working this way a man can not to have his/her salary. In my opinion, all workers run the risk of being not paid. The most important thing to do firstly is to draw up a contract, where all duties of both sides will be established.
To conclude, the development of technology today gives people many opportunities that some people take as an advantages and benefit from them, meanwhile others call them in question and do not want to use them.
