Review on the book ''Jonathan Livingston Seagull''
The book which I am going to tell you about was written by Richard David Bach, a remote descendant of the famous musician Johann Sebastian Bach. He wrote ''Jonathan Livingston Seagull'' in 1970 and it reminded in the Best Seller list for 38 weeks. In my opinion, this book was worth that!
First of all, before starting reading we should look at the epigraph of the book. There is written, ''To the real Jonathan Seagull, who lives within us all''. It means that the author wanted to tell us not about a simple bird, but about the bird, which lives in our soul.
The genre of the book is novella or parable story and it tells us about a seagull Jonathan, who's the loveliest hobby was flying. Unlike other seagulls from his flock, Jonathan loved the process of flying, but not only overcoming the distance between a fishing boat with meal and a shore. He was so satisfied with improving his skills and learning of new air figures, that he was kicked out of the flock. However, he continued practicing flight.
One day, the two beautiful seagulls came to him and invited Jonathan to another world, where he would be at home. There Livingston met a lot of his brothers - the seagulls, who loved flight as much as he did. And there he found a teacher, the wisest Chiang, who showed him how his mind can get the gull anywhere in the Universe. 
However, Jonathan was not satisfied enough with his new life. He knew lots of amazing things, but he wanted to share his knowledge with his native flock. He came back to the Earth and started to teach Outcasts, the gulls, who were out of the flock for their love to flight. 
Jonathan's cherished dream was to make everybody believe in himself and feel the spirit of the whole being.
I think, this book is one of the most interesting ones I've ever read. Although it is peaceful and placid enough, there are some very exciting moments. Moreover, it is really inspiring and helps us to look into our soul. ''Jonathan Livingston Seagull'' teaches us how to make the wishes come true and never give up.
I would recommend everyone to read this book because it is really worth reading!
