Nowadays there are a lot of different magazines newspapers and others sources of various information from politics to culture. All news appears due to the work of journalists. Today there are a lot of opinions on a job  of journalism: is it a good profession to earn money or not?
From my point of view, journalism is a good profession. First of all, it is   very important kind of job for all people. Due to the work of journalists we get information from all over the world. They make it accessible for population through the Internet, TV, magazines  and radio. They sometimes have to go very far  from their home to make a report from some places where something interesting or even dangerous happens.  Just imagine how little we would know about what is happening around if there is no journalist. It isalso should be mentioned that due to rating war journalists from different companies try to never miss a deadline. That is why we also get the latest news in a timely manner. Secondly, journalism is a very interesting profession. Working as a correspondent you often have to go to very unusual places, sometimes even to dangerous territories. Using the skills of catching required information, you make a good report for people and in addition you learn a lot of new things, see new places, meet people and what is more important improve journalistic skills. Journalists should provide the qualified material. That is why they should understand the art theater, art, politicsthat makes their life bright and rich. Furthermore, journalism is  useful profession for the person who works in this sphere. If a man would like to become a good journalisthe/she should have a higher education. They know how to write clear and succinct sentences,  choose  required information. Moreover, it is important to keep up with different people. So being a journalist you develop personal qualities such as trust, patience, perseverance, cunning and eagerness to communicate.
    However, some people are confident that journalism is  "dirty" job because they often make money on other people's mistakes or misfortunes. Persons suppose that journalist will do almost everything for a scoop or to break a story. I do not agree with this statement. If you are  well educated person you know all libel laws and follow them. Moreover good and famous companies do everything to maintain their reputation. So they keep an open mind before providing information and  always respect the privacy of public people.
To summarize, there are some arguments about the profession of journalist. But there is no doubt that this vocation brings a lot of advantages to all people from all over the world as well as to men who work in this sphere and moreover develop a lot of human skills.
