Educational system is a field where a person creates his identity, widens his abilities, chooses his own way of life. Frequently, educational system based on curriculi and standardized testing leads to establishing the system of indoctrination of the young, which only prepares them for life of conformity. Educational system is a framework, where person have placed into since childhood (we go to school, then enter the university, then go to work). 
Everything in the world is standardized. We comply with the order, rules and traditions. Rules help us to be more organized. To be placed into the framework doesn’t mean be uncreative person or having no way for self-expression. Rules help us to be creative, because you even know to what follow. Standardization makes our life easier. It teaches us to follow the time and we don’t stop on the one thing. Educational system, which based on standard, helps us to realize our potential. The main goal to get a good knowledge, not even a diploma. Moreover, to get a good grade, which are a part of encouragement, is not utilitarian but shows knowledge. Standardized testing helps to increase order. Tests develop our memory. Frequently testing helps people to remember what they have learnt earlier, what influence on creativity. Moreover, there are some tests, which help person to understand themselves.
However, some people can say that standardization destroys creativity. Strict rules don’t motivate people. Testing doesn’t develop interest and imagination. Moreover, people are different and not all of them can follow the rules. People can’t be measured in the same way. Teaching the standard is meaningless. Curriculum is a boring system, which doesn’t give to reveal personal identity and show creativity, much better to work in team and can cooperate with each other. Standardization don’t let you discover. As rule, curriculum doesn’t change, what prevent to show what you can do.
To sum up, educational system requires effort in any way. Person can show his creativity regardless type of educational system. However, to my mind, standard system is better, because it gives you opportunity to be creative following the rules at the same time. Standards don’t prevent it. When a person knows his next step, it saves his time, what gives him more time to create. Testing is a creative way of self-expression too. 
