The chart illustrating the statistics of the preferable leisure activities in Australia shows which of the following places of entertainment: zoos, libraries, theatres and cinemas, are the most popular in the country nowadays. The three selected representative groups are people born in Australia, new migrants born in English-speaking countries and new migrants born in other countries, which helps to diversify the information about preferences of people who belong to this culture and the information about preferences of those who do not. 
The statistics show that more people born in English-speaking countries visit zoos than people born in Australia or other countries, which makes 50% on the chart compared to 35% (people born in other countries). There is no reasonable explanation, why people from other countries find zoos in Australia so unattractive, because usually zoos are visited mostly by all kinds of tourists and new migrants. However, migrants from other countries, who do not like to go to the zoo, prefer to spend their free time at libraries far more than their friends born in Australia and English-speaking countries. 55% of new migrants from other countries go to the library, with 38% of Australians and 40% of people from English-speaking countries. This makes perfect sense (if you live in the utopia), because new migrants from other countries want to study the culture and learn the language of the country they are to live in, and nothing suits this aim better that the library. Until you think of the Internet. Theatres in Australia are mostly visited by migrants from English-speaking countries, possibly because the plays are close enough to their language and culture and they are still hungry for new cultural experiences, unlike their Australian friends, who have lived there for eternity and don't find local theatres as fascinating as they may find the ones in London. Cinema is at the highest peak of popularity among all these entertainments. 70% of Australians, 65% of migrants from English-speaking countries and 50% of migrants from other countries are highly interested in going to the cinema. There is no surprise, because going to the cinema is much cheaper than going to the theatre or to the zoo, and yet, in the view of an average person, movies are far more interesting and spectacular, than theatre plays. 
The unpopularity of theatres compared to the popularity of cinemas could be concerning. However, if we just think of it, we will remember that theatre was always considered some kind of an elite entertainment, while cinemas were entertainment for the masses. If we remember this, the statistics showing that 70% of Australians go to cinemas and only 20% of them visit theatres will not sound that terrifying. In my opinion, there is no reason for the government to cut a funding of theatres. The only thing that needs to be done is a good promoting company that will show young Australians that theatres can be cool too, because with the growing popularity of watching films, TV series and plays online, the disaster for the theatres is yet to come. 
