
Educational system based on curriculum and standardized testing leads to establishing the system of indoctrination of the young, which only prepares them for life of conformity.

What`s the main purpose of education? This controversial question has been frequently discussed but it is still hard to give a clear answer.
Some people think that the educational system is too straight and boring and prevent young people from expressing their own thoughts, do not let them to be creative. They say that it is not necessary to go to the university so that to be successful in the future. What you do need is your own longing for the progress which will lead you to the new horizons.
Nevertheless, I cannot agree with this point of view. Firstly, we need educational system. It can have its own advantages and disadvantages, but we cannot do without it. Systematization is the best way of creating the system which helps people to gain knowledge and develop their skills. Secondly, I disagree that creativity doesn`t exist in the educational system. Of course, you need some basic skills which are important for your future exams but you still have a lot of space to be creative – writing essays, inventing new songs or poems, even doing sport – all this things enquires a lot of efforts and creativity. We also should not forger than there are a lot of facilities for creativity work in schools and universities, so it is just a question of the spare time and your own desire. Educational system also provides people with equal rights, it gives a middle-class person a chance of having a good job in the future. Standardization helps us to keep everything in order. For instance, bachelor system let you continue your education somewhere abroad, it makes life easier and broaden the horizons of your future life, giving more abilities for a successful career. When you are engaged in the educational system you are more motivated in searching new information and more confident of your future. It also helps to organize your time more efficiently and achieve new goals.
To sum it up, it is clear now that we all need frameworks but what they be like depends only on our choice.
