How much you can tell about a person having only his battered hat?  Can you compare his wellbeing several years ago and right now, can you observe anything about his eyesight, state of his mind, his bad habits and his relationships with his family? Barely you can, but the main character of the book I read, Sherlock Holmes, does it easily and the method he used to detect such thing was later called Holmesian deduction.
Everybody knows that Holmes is not the person you can get on well with  easily. Rivals a envious of him (and he has lots them), ordinary people are afraid of his ability to tell everything about a stranger. But his only friend Doctor Watson managed to see his true nature from the first sight. He admires Sherlock's genius and their friendship has taught both of them a lot. 
The cases "A Scandal in Bohemia", "The Red-Headed League", "A Case of Identity", "The Boscombe Valley Mystery", "The Five Orange Pips", "The Man with the Twisted Lip", "The Adventure of the Blue Carbuncle", "The Adventure of the Speckled Band", "The Adventure of the Engineer’s Thumb", "The Adventure of the Noble Bachelor", "The Adventure of the Beryl Coronet", "The Adventure of the Copper Beeches"  of the famous detective described by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle between 1883-1890 were collected in the book "The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes" first published in 1892. 
While solving all the mysteries he faced Sherlock Holmes travelled all around the England and visited different places like Boscombe Valley, Herefordshire, Horsham, Surrey, Eyford, Hampshire, helped dozens of people of different social status from a reporter to a king. But there were cases when legendary detective didn't manage to help his client. John Openshaw in "The Five Orange Pips" died. By an unfortunate accident he slipped and fall into the river. Sherlock Holmes had never recovered from it.
One thing that had the greatest effect upon me is the fact that it was real man Joseph Bell who inspired Doyle to create Holmes. Bell was a person of an exceptional mind who could make up broad conclusion from a tiny clue. But there also were others like Sir Henry Littlejohn and Francis "Tanky" Smith who played their own roles in forming Sherlock Holmes' personality. 
Even though the stories about Sherlock Homes were written almost two centuries ago people all over the world keep admiring great detective and they will always do.
