50 years ago the word 'globalization' referred only to economics, for instance to the international trade or to the production of goods, although since the invention of the Internet and other modern technologies most people began to use it regarding such spheres of humans' life as culture, politics, environmental and health issues. The matter of globalization today gains more and more currency and people start to consider the issue in all aspects in order to find its advantages and disadvantages.
Some scientists think the idea of globalization in its modern meaning rose in 1970s. However, Andre Gunder Frank introduced conception of archaic globalization that started in the third millennium B.C. But still only at the end of XX century globalization caused active protests in society. Protest actions continue till nowadays and have become even harsher.   
Globalization undoubtedly brings some positive influence. It gives people around the world the idea of liberty and capitalism; make them aware of international affairs and issues, spread among them notion about humanity and humans rights. Moreover, globalization produces free competition on the international market and therefore lowers the prices. Eventually, due to the Internet globalization promotes interethnic communication.
The advantages of globalization can't be underestimated but its legality is undecided as far as most of its processes can be looked at from a different standpoint. Many scientists consider that globalization results in economical regress in developing countries because of the difference in purchase prices. It causes as well the development of underpaid labor in inappropriate conditions which is called sweatshops and even includes child labor to satisfy the corporate greed. 
Globalization is intended to eliminate small cultures and languages to substitute them for one international culture and language either. Due to globalization processes one small language dies in two weeks. When a language dies the culture that formed it also dies. Language creates our world outlook, make people different and if the impact of globalization increase it will be very boring to live in the world where people think and feel all the same things. 
