2nd Critique. Componential analysis.
Componential analysis is a linguistic term for a method to decompose meanings of concepts, which are conveying by words. As it is also called, lexical decomposition, to be more precise, refers to the semantic sphere of linguistics. Despite it's being well-known, there is a disputation over whether this method is effective, valid.
First, this term needs to be explained in detail. Though the method has several theoretical issues, it is frequently said to have conformity with elementary mathematics. For example, the words 'hill' and 'mountain' have as different, as similar in the meanings. They might be presented as the set of components being sense-basic for particular language, and in the same time as mathematical expression: 'hill = RELIEF& HEIGHT& SMALL' and 'mountain = RELIEF& HEIGHT& BIG'. Next, componential analysis tends to create a limited number of the most primitive lexemes out of which it will be possible to construct every sense of every word or expression. Therefore, the first of the theoretical issues mentioned before is - what is more basic, 'small' or 'big', 'hot' or 'cold', 'light' or 'dark'. Being positive, then 'hill' will equal to 'RELIEF& HEIGHT& NOT-BIG' or 'RELIEF& HEIGHT& ~ SMALL' (with negation-operator '~').
On the one hand, componential analysis is a crucial invention in the light of new online services, dictionaries and instruments for operating with languages. Extracting from concept its sense-components allows building a prominent system of interpretation. Moreover, universality of the idea leads to ability of its existing in every language. It has been already applied to the UNL, Universal Networking Language, which mission is to provide all people an opportunity to share their native-language knowledge with others and describe it to the computer. UNL now is not one-goal source; there are computer language, the Programme, applications and online society. Equally important to the UNL, there is a semantic explanatory dictionary developed by Russian linguists, which contains a set of 250 words used to construct every interpretation of other words. Such works are fundamental in the cause of sharing our languages and culture with each other.
On the other hand, though, componential analysis has its own flaws. The most essential problem is how to decompose the notion of colors, or how to choose one 'basic' sense-component among the most controversial 'male', 'female' and 'human', 'animal'. Furthermore, explaining the names of animals in that way loses to simple pictures, for example. Different languages have different words for the same primitive ideas and once a person sees the picture, the meaning becomes clear. There are other problems: whether metaphors are rare or not, still it is not relevant trying to foresee all possible figurative senses, constructing analysis of the word. Besides, some notions could be understood in variable ways inside human's head and particularly among different nations.
In summary, it is noteworthy to distinguish practical tasks and complicated cases like metaphors. In computer instruments, online sources and programming languages componential analysis is adequate and effective. In case of more natural problems it probably fails to fulfill its own goal.
Reference:
John Lyons. Chapter 'Componential analysis' in ' Linguistic Semantics'. p. 107-114.