Review
John Lyons. Componential analysis. Linguistics semantics. p. 107-114
The concept of componential analysis is an integral part of structural semantics and it interested many scientists that explore different models and instruments in linguistics. The main idea of componential analysis is to describe words' meanings with the help of meaning components and to deviate from the principle of compositionality.A famous English linguist John Lyons is one of those scientists who investigates this model and develops it.
Lyons defines componential analysis (or lexical decomposition) as one way of formalizing, or making absolutely precise, the sense-relations that hold among lexemes.This is a unique way to present lexemes as the sum of different sense-components.For example, the words boy and man can be presented like: boy = HUMAN & MALE & ~ADULT and man = HUMAN & MALE & ADULT.  The essential part of the analysis is an attempt to establish a semantic metalanguage, which consists of sense-components (HUMAN, MALE), operators (&, ~) and predicates. Sometimes it is impossible to explain the meaning of the word only with sense-components. For instance, the decomposition of the lexeme father= PARENT & MALE does not explicit the fact that fatherhoodis a two-place predicate. It can be expanded by adding some variables, for example: father = (x, y) PARENT & (x) MALE, which means x is the parent of y and x is male. Lexical decomposition is an instrument, which can easily characterize the sense of words by adding special features and this makes it unique.
Componential analysis is well suited for certain linguistic areas, like computational linguistics, but it is less clear how it can be useful for many other areas. The theory of the analysis has some disputed places. First, the theory has many flaws in the decomposition of metaphors. For example, the word sister in the expression she is my sister can be defined as: HUMAN & ~MALE & SAME PARENTS. But this definition of the word sister does not suitthe expression after thisyou are not my sister, where sisterused metaphorically. Second, it is sometimes unclear how many and which sense-components should constitute the set of semantic properties of the word. For example, the word boy includes three sense-components (HUMAN, MALE and ~ADULT), while child includes only two (HUMAN, ~ADULT) and this ambiguity raises many debates among linguists. 
In conclusion, lexical decomposition represents the meanings of words in terms of the semantic features. This is a successful attempt to connect semantics with mathematics, but it is still a very controversial area of linguistics. Componential analysis has wide and ambitious perspectives in the machine translation andcan be extremely popular among computer linguists.

