Sense and Sensibility is the story of Elinor and Marianne Dashwood, sisters who encounter many obstacles on the path to true love. In my opinion, the title of the book “Sense and Sensibility” is significant, as with others well-known books of Jane Austen. At my best guess, two of the heroine of the novel ,the sisters Elinor and Marianne, are the title of the novel. Obviously, the title should have been their names, but the author made in the title of those traits that are embodied in each of the heroines.  The difference in the characters of the two girls reveals the difference between the words sense and sensibility. Elinor, the older of the sisters, is ruled by sense. Therefore she is not given to great shows of emotion or passion, whereas Marianne, who is only about 17 during the time the story takes place, thrives on drama and expressions of emotion, she dislikes and distrusts anyone who does not wear his heart on his sleeve. The author especially emphasizes the fact that her emotions affect the appearance and surrounding notice it. I can't help thinking that for me Elinor is by far the more sympathetic of the sisters Dashwood, actually, Elinor and Marianne have also a younger sister, Margaret, for most of the book, though some people may, I suppose, find her equanimity and perfection a little off-putting. I found her very sympathetic, since as the reader we’re privy to her inner thoughts and realize how hard it is for her to maintain her calm. The story opens with the death of Mr. Henry Dashwood, Elinor, Marianne and Margaret’s father. Soon, their half-brother and his rapacious wife descend on Norland Park, the family’s estate, and take over the place. Mr. Dashwood had hoped to provide well for his second wife and their three daughters. Unfortunately the estate had been passed down to Mr. Dashwood in such a way that he was unable to leave it to anyone but his son John, who was already wealthy from an inheritance from his late mother, as well as from having made a good marriage. So as an alternative Mr. Dashwood asked John on his deathbed to look after the interests of his stepmother and sisters. However soon John and his wife have decided that this “generous spirit” only requires them to help the ladies find a suitable place to move to, and nothing more. Moreover Mrs. John Dashwood’s is concerned about the connection forming between Elinor and her brother, Edward Ferrars, who is a frequent visitor at Norland. Mr. Ferrars is the eldest son of a wealthy family and his sister and mother have big plans for him that don’t include a quiet, modest nothingness such as Elinor. Shortly the widow Dashwood and her daughters receive an offer from a distant relative for a situation in Devonshire, a comfortable and affordable cottage near the relative’s estate. They leave Norland with some regret and begin their new life. Furthermore settled in Devonshire, the Dashwood sisters meet a veritable host of new people. Sir John Middleton, their jolly but rather silly benefactor, his wife, who thinks of nothing but her children, and Mrs. Jennings, the wife’s mother, vulgar and gossipy but with an unexpected heart of gold. They also meet several eligible gentlemen, for example, Colonel Brandon, a friend of Middleton’s who takes an interest in Marianne, but an interest not returned, because she finds him to be too boring and passionless, and John Willoughby, a dashing young man who does attract Marianne’s notice. On the whole there’s a lot going on in the plot of Sense and Sensibility and there are several major and minor characters that I haven’t mentioned, needless to say that I haven’t truly managed to dig very deeply into the plot, however I am convinced that the most exciting of this novel is that there are a number of twists and turns to Elinor’s and Marianne’s romances and both sisters suffer a fair amount of heartache before each finds her beloved.
I liked pretty much everything about Sense and Sensibility. The plot, which is intricate without being too convoluted, the characters, several of whom have unexpected depth, and even some of the villains are not entirely without nuance, also one of the pleasures of the book for me is that I didn’t know who would end up with who. Apart from this,while I was reading this book, I encountered difficulties with the old-fashioned writing, which did feature the same long, indirect sentences that I tended to get lost in and have to reread to understand. 
In addition to this I would like to say that the novel can be called ladies, on the ground that it has some of its characteristics. First, the main characters are women, they fall in love and want to marry to find really happiness. And secondly, the novel has a very prosperous for such works finale, everything worked out in the best way. As a conclusion I am inclined to believe that read this novel, which describes the elegance of manners, spiritual development, high education, high moral heroes, elevates the reader and opens new horizons of self-education.
