Lord of the flies: devil in child or child in devil.
What are commonly books, where the main characters are children, about? Generally, they cover the themes of love, of the formation of character, of friendship and school life. And the common thing for all these stories is hope and positive attitude. Most of them have this ordinary «happy end», which makes the reader to be glad for novel’s characters, but probably seems a bit improbable.
«Lord of the flies» is completely different. This story can not be actually referred to any general type of belletristic. It is not so called «junior novel», it can not be interpreted as a fiction, it also doesn’t seem to be a typical adventure story. Told in the third person, it can make everyone feel himself like a participant of the events. The book has its own distinctive style and narration manner, which makes this novel truly inimitable. It is has a marvelous, haunting plot and is simultaneously the story of the struggle between good and evil, between human and animal nature. An attentive reader can enjoy and perceive all the levels of William Golding text: from syntax to the whole construction of narration. 

Actually, it is necessary to describe the context of the creation of this novel. It was written by William Golding in 1954 and has gained a Nobel prize in 1983. Actually, the way to success was a bit difficult for this novel. Due to hard political situation, most of publishing houses has rejected to publish the novel. Finally, after twenty-one unsuccessful attempts, one of them has accepted this novel with the condition that Golding will rewrite the beginning of his creation. The first variant of book was designed as an ironic commentary to the genre of «stories of Robinson», which offer an optimistic sight on the ability of people to leave in isolation of civilization.
To be honest, I think that the provocative content of this novel is the reason of its popularity and also the reason of its public rejection in the beginning. This novel can be named shocking, but its expressive content is thought provoking. The whole novel can be interpreted as an global allegory of our life, and I will try to explain it below, without going into the details of the plot.
First of all, the artistic content of the novel is based on contrasts. All the heroes are children, but they are forced to face not children’s problem. They are quite young (some of them are even not teenagers), but the reader may get the impression that he is reading about adults. Moreover, even not about adults – about our whole society and about contradictoriness of human nature. And if we are even more careful in reading, we will realize, that actually the Golding’s answer of the problem of controversial character of human nature isn’t clear enough: by the end of the novel we can not answer confidently, where is the «root of evil» - in the circumstances of the plot, in the cruelty of negative characters, or in .. in even human soul.
The language of the novel and most of the symbols are strongly allegoric. To not spoil the plot, I can say that even its name, «Lord of flies», is a translation of the name of one of ancient Hebrew demons – Baal zvuv, which analog (Beelzebub), was thought as one of the names of Satan. As for me, it is one of the charming characteristics of the novel: the understanding of it depends on your age, your education and even the cultural features of your society! Consequently, this book can be read every time as a first time: everyone will explore it like a whole new world every time he or she reads it.

To be honest, it is impossible to make such a review about «Lord of the flies» that can tell people something about this book, expect the most general consideration. How can you describe the taste of apple for someone who has never eaten it? Or how will you describe the color of red color for a blind person? This book is just worth to read. Not because of a Nobel prize. Not because of its popularity. Just because it can change your whole attitude to life.
