A few years ago many people were sure that computers would be able to translate texts from one language into another even better than a professional translator could do. Within last several years mechanical translations improved greatly, but a dream still remains a dream - translations done by computers always need additional editing. What's more, sometimes computer translations look just unreadable!
The problem is computers can't think over the text. Machines don't really understand meanings of words and can hardly analyse their combinations. Finally, computers can't feel irony and don't know anything on metaphorical uses of words. For all these reasons, the majority of translations made by machines contain collocations which are odd to a human eye. Many linguists and programmers are working on this matter, but more and more people doubt whether it is possible to make a computer do a good translation.
I also doubt about it. A few times I tried computer programs to translate anything but the results were disappointing. In some cases computers even mixed up tenses and numbers! So I can't even imagine how a human can consider all possible word combinations and idioms creating a new system of automatical translation if they haven't considered such a regular thing as grammatical forms yet. After all, a human language seems to be too complex thing to be learned through.
However, theoretically it is possible to consider everything. But practically it's almost impossible! Is the way out is found, it will be a greatest discovery ever. It is like to create a perfect artificial intelligence. I don't think it will come true soon. Moreover, I think that now it is quite hard to improve the technology of machine translation as it's not enough to be a good programmer to do it. You also must be a linguist. Now linguists and programmers work on this problem together, but I'm not sure if they understand each other. They must really join their efforts to change anything to the better.
All in all, a perfect system of machine translation can hardly be invented soon. We still will have to check any translation done by a machine and edit it as now there's no technology to change it. But if computers will be ''taught'' to translate text without any troubles it will be a miracle.