Homonymy, polysemy and their differences are an important topic in semantics. In the book 'Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction' written by John Lyons there is the chapter which covers this topic. The author presents his own view on this problem and supports it with arguments and examples.
At the beginning of the chapter John Lyons introduces the traditional definition of homonyms. Then he presents its improved variant which is determined by three conditions: lexemes have to be unrelated in meaning, their forms have to be identical and grammatically equivalent. If all three conditions are observed, it is called absolute homonymy. If only one or two of these conditions are satisfied and at least one form of the words is identical, it is a partial homonymy. John Lyons also presents the examples of lexical and grammatical ambiguity which can be caused by partial homonymy. Unfortunately, it is difficult to highlight an explicit distinction between lexical and grammatical homonyms. The significant part of the text with the examples of partial homonyms' ambiguity can confuse a reader. Partial homonyms have to be divided into two subclasses: grammatical partial homonyms and lexical partial homonyms.
The author continues with the definition of polysemy and the statement that sometimes it is difficult to distinguish between homonymy and polysemy. John Lyons suggests two criteria which can help to make this distinction clear. The first criterion is etymology. The second one is relatedness of meaning. The first criterion is understandable. The semantic criterion is extremely subjective. For instance, the Russian word 'cosa' has three meanings: 'a scythe', 'a plait' and 'a long cape in the water'. These meanings have different etymological origins: one of the meanings is Persian, the others are Russian. They have nothing common in meaning. However, there was an experiment which showed that only some people can highlight something common in these words. These results show that semantic criterion is subjective.
In conclusion the author maintains that "it is impossible to draw a sharp distinction between homonymy and polysemy". However, he believes that his work will help to solve this linguistic problem.
The logic of the chapter is clear. However, the reason why homonymy and polysemy should be distinguished does not mentioned in the chapter. Homonymy and polysemy have to be labeled in dictionaries and be taken into account in machine translation.
To sum up, the chapter is well-written and well-organised which helps a reader to understand the topic better. However, points about partial homonyms and semantic criterion are not supported sufficiently. Thus, the chapter would have been clearer if the semantic criterion had been formulated more strictly.

John Lyons (1981), Homonymy and polysemy; lexical and grammatical ambiguity, Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction, pp. 54-60

