“This side of paradise” is a real masterpiece by one of the most outstanding American authors Francis Scott Fitzgerald. Firstly it was published in 1920 and since than the story about young romantic egoist had been beloved by thousands of readers all over the world.
 
 I’ve fallen in love with “This side of paradise” from the first page and I couldn’t put it down till the end. 
 
This is a mixed genre book – it’s a novel with some drama. The book is a real page-turner and easy and light to read. It's devided by 2 parts: “The Romantic Egoist” and “The Education of a personage”. All main characters are based on Fitzgerald and his closest friends and relatives. 
 
The story takes place in pre-war America of the 20th century. The main character Amory Blaine is a young boy from a wealthy aristocratic family. His capricious eccentric mother, Beatrice, has huge influence on Amory. Amory grows up as a handsome intelligent boy, but he is extremely vain and conceited. He achieves success whatever it worths. He is an idealist and has an idea that his target is to get the highest place in society. Amory has acquainted with Monsignor Darcy, who becomes Amory’s mentor and his main support for many years. In boarding school everybody ignores him and treat Amory with contempt and detestation. Amory feels dreadfully and thinks that his life is broken. 
 
Soon afterward Amory makes the Princeton University where he becomes the Princetonian editor (*the main newspaper in the Princeton) and has success. He falls in love with Isabelle Borge and this love is like an infatuation. Amory writes poems and reads a lot of deep books so his mind changes. At Princeton he cognizes death, love, disillusionment. 
 
On his third year in Princeton he loses everything because of his disappointment and laziness. He has fallen on evil times. The War has begun and Amory serves in the army. After his return he falls in love with Rosalind Connage whom he has met in New York and it’s his true love. Rosalind refuses to marry him because of his poorness and marries a man with tight-filled purse. Soon Amory knows about the death of Monsignor Darcy and It’s crushed him.
 
In the end Amory thinks about social justice, politics, religion. His ideas and feelings are in riot, he regrets for his lost youth, lost love, old ambitious and unrealized dreams. The story ends with Amory's words: - “I know myself, but that is all”.
 
This amazing, deep book is for adults. That thought-provoking story shows different sides of friendship, love, self-development. Despite all Amory’s dreadful acts he is a high-minded man. This is that kind of books which people reread again and again but every time they find something new, something important and re-comprehend their lives.
