Some years ago literature became one of the most essential things in culture. Of course, it always was necessary but opportunities to read and, moreover, to understand what is written was given hardly for many of the earlier centuries. Can we imagine what was, for instance, 2-3 centuries ago? Only people of noble families would read. The stereotype of that time lies in the thinking that only they could have been educated. Then in aims of trying of correction such discord priests created the Biblia pauperum ("Paupers' Bible"). It consisted of the illustrated stories of the Scripture. Actually, one of the main goals of this was to help people believe in their power of mind. Even if they didn't know the Latin, the process of analyzing written information lead to development of thought-provoking publications. Besides, today most of the historians call the appearance of the Biblia pauperum as the first step to establishing of Western art culture.
     This example shows us that the ability to read and grow (mentally) is owned by not only people from certain social levels but by every human in the world. Besides, the next aspect is 'What should people read?'. Today the counters are full of books whatever you like. They often are varicoloured with a plenty of applications and extra materials in it. Obviously, it attracts customers of different age. Most of bookshops will offer you publications concerned on a big (!) variety of ideas from cooking to psycholinguistical science. You just come and take the appropriate one from the shelf. So simple but this is the usual thing of the present time. Interestingly, it doesn't matter how different is world of latest books but how wide are your interests. It is known that if person prefers classic literature he, certainly, is a man of taste. To my mind it works because classic literature was made in the years when people with incredible knowledge expressed their thinking on the paper. It is like a basis of today's literature which characterizes by simple vocabulary and pretty understandable plot. Rarely such editions may be thought-provoking as well as gripping. But that's another aspect of current literature.
     In the end I would like to say that people of all ages today believe in the magic power of literature. For the last years it became so diverse that it's hard to distinguish the best. Furthermore, it remains relevant to people. It's timeless, even it was written 200 years ago.
