There are thousands of books about cancer. And they can be simply divided into two types: bad and good. Bad ones usually have primitive plot and implausible characters; the main character (the ill one) is always a person who courageous takes his/her disease and dies heroic in the end. There are many famous books of this type (e. g. ‘Before I die’ by J. Downham or ‘The last song’ by Nicolas Sparks) and all of them, as the author of this review thinks, are pretty dull.
The good ones are, in fact, very different. The common thing in all of them is that the character are look more like real people, for whom ‘humani nihil alium’ is and who has their own weaknesses. Also, this books are always written with humor, because there is no chance to talk about sad things without humor and not to make them too pretentious and pathos. There are not a lot of books of this type, but still there are some and they really worth reading (e. g. ‘Love story’ by Erich Segal).
Not long ago the new book by John Green has been published. Immediately, it became an international bestseller. Its name is ‘The Fault in Our Stars’ and the main line in this book is about teenagers, which have cancer. Therefore, the question is whether we could classify this book as the first type or as the second.
The author of this book is famous young adult fiction writer John Green. ‘The Fault in Our Stars’ is his sixth book. His debut novel ‘Looking for Alaska’ has won Printz Award, and as I have read it as a teenager 3 years ago, I can confirm that this novel is indeed stunning reading for young adults.
In ‘The Fault in Our Stars’ the story is narrated by a sixteen-year-old cancer patient named Hazel Grace. She is an ordinary teenager with the ordinary communication problems with parents and denial of own attractiveness, except she is severely ill. Hazel is forced by her parents to attend a support group, where she meets the seventeen-years-old August Waters (cancer remission, amputee, incredibly attractive) with whom she immediately falls in love. The two agree to read each other’s favorite novel, and Hazel gives August ‘An Imperial Affliction’, which is the novel about cancer-stricken girl written by mysterious author of one book only Peter Van Houten. August adores the book as much as Hazel does, but the problem is that the book has an open end and the two really need to know what had happened with the characters.
So here I have outlined the plot without any extra details not to spoil the reading for those who haven’t read the book yet. But what is special about this novel? Firstly, this novel is not about cancer itself, but about how cancer is perceived by people. Hazel discourses a lot about cancer-books, cancer-metaphors and what she hates about them. She thinks a lot about stock phrases, which cancer patients often hears, such as ‘You are a warrior’, ‘You will win in this battle’ and so on. The reason, why she loves ‘An Imperial Affliction’ is that she feels the same way as the main character of this book does, and she knows that this is a rare thing about cancer books and films.
As for me, the book did not strike me into the heart. Maybe because I am not fifteen anymore, or maybe because I am not as open-hearted as I should be, ‘The Fault in Our Stars’ did not make me cry or even very sad. And there are some things in this book that could help classifying it as a bad one (such as idealized characters). But still, there are a lot of things about this book that I loved. First of all, it is really well written. I love the style and some moments in the book has really made me laugh. For example, there is a moment in the book when Augustus (spoiler alert) asks his friends Hazel and Isaac (who is blind) to write an eulogy for him. I would like to cite it forth:
“Isaac cleared his throat. “Augustus Waters was a self-aggrandizing bastard. But we forgive him. We forgive him not because he had a heart as figuratively good as his literal one sucked, or because he knew more about how to hold a cigarette than any nonsmoker in history, or because he got eighteen years when he should have gotten more. “Seventeen,” Gus corrected. “I’m assuming you’ve got some time, you interrupting bastard”. “I’m telling you,” Isaac continued, “Augustus Waters talked so much that he’d interrupt you at his own funeral. And he was pretentious: Sweet Jesus Christ, that kid never took a piss without pondering the abundant metaphorical resonances of human waste production. And he was vain: I do not believe I have ever met a more physically attractive person who was more acutely aware of his own physical attractiveness. But I will say this: When the scientists of the future show up at my house with robot eyes and they tell me to try them on, I will tell the scientists to screw off, because I do not want to see a world without him”. I was kind of crying by then. “And then, having made my rhetorical point, I will put my robot eyes on, because I mean, with robot eyes you can probably see through girls’ shirts and stuff. Augustus, my friend, Godspeed”.”
The second thing about this book that I love are characters. They are really well written (especially Hazel, Augustus and Isaac) and although sometimes, as I have already mentioned, they are a little bit idealized, they are still very realistic and I like their worldview and sense of humor.
To conclude, I would recommend this book to all under eighteen years old teenagers (because it’s a good young adult fiction) and to all people, who is not already sick of cancer stories (because it’s important to read not only books with happy ends but depressing one also and, after all, this book is a good cancer story). And even if this story won’t make you cry, it will stay with you for some time.
