Feminist movement
The ideology about inequality of rights between men and women was born in the 18th century in France.  Since then the debate about this has not stopped. Representatives of feminism claim that women have all rights in all spheres of society like men. There are a lot of different varieties in this movement and each course may have own functions. At the end of 70-ies feminism became more popular than it was, and many stampedes were held.
Many people believe that all feminists are radical women who hate men, families, children and society in general. This perspective is seemed to be far from the truth. Equal rights for women are everything that feminist movement demands.
We can define feminism in different ways, but in fact, it is fight for the equality, now we don't need to explain what it really means, everyone understands it. Many people believe that feminism has lost the relevance and it is just in the past. However there are a lot of incidents when women feel the impediment in the career growth. Many feminists consider that discrimination against women still exists in the countries of Europe and North America, as well as in all other countries of the world. But feminism as a movement has already lost its speed.
Nowadays, this movement plays an important role in our lives. Can you imagine that in our world girls is not allowed to study at schools, women can't get a well-paid job and don't have the right to vote? It is impossible! We all have the same rights. 
For me, feminism is not striving for privileges women. It is the right of every individual to determine their own path. For example, some people think that only men have the ability in mathematics and only they can develop the science; however there is always a particular woman, which will be more capable of mathematics, than most men. And it will be unfair if the woman is refused to work on scientific, because she's not a man.
In conclusion, I would like to say that soon we will forget about this problem because of its irrelevance.
