The Suitcase by Sergei Dovlatov
Review by Ilya Yershov.
The book I have read is «The Suitcase» by Sergei Dovlatov. It was written in 1986 in USA. The main reason of reading Russian author in English was the fact that Dovlatov had told once in an interview that Americans always told him that his books in English are better than those which are in Russian. I wanted to check this point but firstly I would like to describe this book itself.
It is pretty hard to define the genre in which book is written because in fact it is just a collection of stories impersonated by the items in the suitcase and connected by them. The suitcase itself is the only thing that narrator has brought when he was emigrating from USSR to USA. After arriving he has put it in a closet and has forgotten about it. There a lot of years have passed, many events occurred, and only by the random chance he has taken it from the closet.
And he is at the moment surrounded by nostalgia, what is more it seems to me that it is a little bit frightening or panic nostalgia because as the narrator says, «From Marks to Brodsky, and between them life. Lost, precious, only life». It frights.
Narrator is divined while narration as Dovlatov himself, as if it his life, his stories. In addition style in which this book was written reinforces such feeling: it is easy to read, it is clear, it is breathing. There is a sensation while reading like it is not a reading at all, it is more seems to me as listening to the stories while sitting in a cozy place. That is why, as Brodsky said, «any Dovlatov’s book can be assimilated in few hours», so it is free of tension, entertaining and interesting.
Even though other books can be described in such way, for instance «Pushkin Hills», «Foreign woman», «Compromise», but not only «The Suitcase». There is some spirit, style of the writer. Of course there are some books which are harder to read then others, for instance, «Zone»,  but anyway Dovlatov’s style is always recognizable. 
One of the reasons I love Dovlatov’s art is that there is no any submeaning in his creations. At least I think so.  He just narrates, tells what he sees, and this is it. There was a moment in the story «I want to be strong» when protagonist was attacked by a literator’s questions that what do birds flying around granitic monument mean, what kind of literature specific is there. Protagonist answered that it does mean nothing, birds just fly, it’s okay. Also there is no need in finding any causal relationship or morality, any secret subtext or something similar to it. If so I try to define morality of his arts, then it must be that life is what  it is, people behave in the way they do and it can’t be helped. It can be helped only by treating it with humour is the only thing, as Dovlatov does it.
Unfortunately book in English is harder to read, it is was more monotone. It is due mainly with translating problems. It is very difficult to translate any book from Russian to English and at the same time keep the author’s style of writing. While reading book in Russian I felt connection with Russian people, I could understand people’s behavior. Everything it eluded me while reading in English, I only thought that our mentality is weird. The book in Russian is written more complex and this is the reason it is claimed to be harder in perception. But more complex is not worse; such refined and unique style is created mainly by words which are unknown abroad but known among people in our country. Nevertheless even in English those style can be recognized.
In general I was pleased by this book, it was a good experience. There is a possibility of comparing two different cultures, traces of which can be divined even in languages. And despite this I was pleased by the content, but that is only because I love art of Dovlatov. 
Nevertheless I wouldn’t encourage others to read it, at least I wouldn’t encourage Russians to read the edition in English because it hides more interesting things, though there is a possibility of comparing but this is not what I think people should expect from books. I would encourage English speakers to read it for familiarization with Russian culture.
