Nowadays globalisation of the world influences the way we live. It became common to travel and work abroad. And for living in the global world we need to study foreign languages. And some people believe that we should start learning as soon as possible. I agree with this point of view. I believe that everybody should begin learning a foreign language at primary school. But there are some people who disagree with this opinion supposing that it will be better to start language education at secondary school.
First of all, there are a number of experiments showing that the younger child is the better he or she begins speaking on the foreign language. And this is a greatadvantage of the position for learning at primary school. Moreover, nowadays there are a lot of systems of teaching a foreign language which are suitable for children and which provide education with captivating games. It means that children will have fun while learning that transfer education into game. So children will learn a language without efforts.
However, some people doubt that learning a foreign language at primary school is safe for children. Of course, these people can't disagree with the fact that education can be funny and captivating. But some believe that different languages can intesect in the mind of a child. That means that people thiks that children will not be able to communicate properly in the society if they learn a foreign language early.
Personally, I disagree with this opinion. there are a lot of people who live without any language problems because of the early language learning. More than this, there are bilinguals who speak more than one language as native. As for me, I know a girl who is a bilingual. She speaks German and Italian as mother tongues. further, she learns English. And she has no troubles with communicating and doesn't have great pauses or errors while speaking. this agrees with other examples where people fell free because of speaking a foreign language or beeing a bilingual.
To sum up,  I believe that children should start learning a foreign language at primary school. this will be easier for them and will save their time. As a result, they will be able to speak with people from other countries without any problems starting with earlier age.
