What if social media and modern gadgets had existed when I was a kid? What if I had fallen asleep with an iPhone or iPad on my chest instead of Stefan Zweig novels? Would I be able to see the world the way I see it today? Like Sebastian Faulks said, “If I hadn't read all of Jane Austen and DH Lawrence, Tolstoy and Proust, as well as the more fun stuff, I wouldn't know how to break bad news, how to sympathize, how to be a friend or a lover, because I wouldn't have any idea what was going on in anybody else's mind”, and I absolutely agree with him.
Actually, one of the best things my parents ever did for me was immersing me in a world of books at an early age. Personally, I can’t imagine my everyday life without spending time reading books and travelling mentally. I reckon that I would be another person now if I thought that reading wasn’t important in the fast-moving world because all necessary information could be obtained from the TV or could be found on the Internet. Moreover, I believe that without reading I wouldn't ever learn to write anything longer than 200 characters, as reading always improves our language and widens our mental horizons.  Thus, if I didn’t love reading, my communication wouldn’t ever become clear and I wouldn’t be able to pick up right words to express my thoughts and feelings, I guess. It is obvious, of course, that these days I, like so many other people, spend lots of time staring at a screen. However, the reason I can manage to put words together in a reasonably coherent way is that I had such an essential brain exercise as reading earlier in my life. And I’m not totally sure that would have happened if my mom had been able to distract me as a kid with her iPhone while she was busy. Fortunately, she always found time to spend with me reading enlightening fairytales or exciting stories.
All in all, I will always maintain that the more we read, the more things we know; the more things we know, the more we try to achieve more out of life.
