Technological innovations can be found in almost every sphere of our life nowadays. It makes it possible for us to live in a very comfortable world, but the question is whether this kind of comfort is building a cage for us. I suggest observing both points of view. 
Flying by plains makes getting even to the other side of the Earth take us less than a day; but the work of the airports can easily be stopped because of some weather conditions, and therefore people sometimes get locked in one place when they already have to be somewhere else. People nowadays can’t imagine their lives without electricity and in the case of a blackout life of the whole area is totally paralyzed or enormously hardened. However, it doesn’t mean we should reduce the use of electricity or try to do without it. It is a wonderful way to ease our lives and to make them more comfortable; there is no need to make a step back in human evolution. Still the question of being suddenly put into difficult circumstances is an important one to think of, and may be it would be sensible to teach people how to survive in such cases. For example, we can make such obligatory courses at schools or universities.
	However, sometimes over-reliance on technology can bring us not only comfort but harm as well. For example, the plenty of computer programs for solving mathematical problems (from calculators to the ones that can build any graph) makes it not obligatory to know even the nuts and bolts of this science; but mathematics is not just a practical thing; it is kind of “gym for human’s mind”, and forgetting how to do it is not a good news for your brain. A lot of similar examples can be found. Navigators make it unnecessary to remember the ways we drive, so our memory lacks a piece of good training. Internet sometimes replaces real-life communication, video games can replace the real life itself – such kind of things creates a virtual world that can destroy our real one unless we put it in certain frames.
	What I am actually trying to conclude is that modern technology is not a bad thing at all; it can ease our life considerably, but in case of over-reliance on it its help may become very harmful. That’s why it is so important to keep it in frames or just not to forget how to live without it.
