Linguistics is very new, but an intensively developing science. Linguistics exists due to grammar and language that already exists. However, new linguistics discoveries are made by organizing experiments. In the field of psycholinguistics, there are thousands of experiments occurring daily that attempt to show how language is connected with our brain, and how people, who communicate in different languages, think. Do they think the same or not? This is an interesting question.
     In this essay I would like to describe an experiment by an American linguist, Lera Boroditsky, who tried to understand how native speakers of different languages perceive the environment. Do they react on the same things identically? Her experiment involved showing English and Indonesian respondents three pictures. In the first and third pictures there was the same man, but the man in the first picture was about to kick a ball and in the third, he had already kicked it. In the second picture there was a different man that was about to kick the ball. The question was: Which two photos are most similar? The answer given by most English-speaking respondents was the first and third, while the Indonesians said that the first and second were closer. 
     Why did this happen? The answer is not very clear. As far as I know, the English language has a lot of tenses, so every action has a special temporary color. And, the Indonesian language has fewer tenses than English. Therefore, the Indonesian respondents did not find the difference between two actions, kicking and already kicked. Furthermore, the experiment shows that in Indonesian, the subject plays a more important role than the action, while in English, people attach more attention to actions.
     I can not be certain, but one more reason why Indonesian respondents may have chosen the pictures of the same man is due to the fact that Indonesia is a country with very modest means. People in villages hand wash their clothes and sometimes do not have electricity. Their way of life and religion is very simple and specific; they live and rejoice because of communication with other people.
     To sum up, such linguistic research helps us in understanding not only that language is closely connected with our brain, but these interesting results lead us to think about many other factors that influence our mind, like culture, traditions, religion, and education. Paying attention to them, allows researchers to create general conclusions about how these factors affect the brain differently amongst various groups. 
