This book is a diary of Anne Frank, thirteen-year-old girl. It tells us about the events in her life,  feelings during the Second World War.
It begins in 1942 in Holland. On her birthday, Anne received a lot of gifts. A diary was one of the presents and it liked her the most. Anne was a cheerful and sociable girl, but she did not have a best friend, so her new diary replaced him. Anne gave a name to it – Kitty. The girl not only wrote her thoughts, she was in communication with imaginary friend.
Anne was born in a Jewish family. The Jews were despised. They were forced to wear special clothing with the distinctive emblem, to buy food in specialized stores and their children had to go to the school for the Jews. Many things were disabled for this nationality. Anne's family and the family of van Daan were forced to hide in the shelter. They were very afraid of each other, often misused. A huge number of the Jews were cruelly killed and were sent to concentration camps. Anne's family lived in endless fear. They were afraid of being discovered. Anne felt that no one understood her. She always believed in the best, in the victory over the Nazis. 
Despite all obstacles and hardships, Anne sincerely believed in God. She did not complain about her fate, thought that her family lived well in comparison with other families (they could buy some clothes). The girl also worried about her friends. 
It was so interesting for me to read the fragment, where Anne wrote about her feeling to Peter. Despite the complexity of fate, Anne was a girl who dreamt of love. I really like how pathetic she described her friendship with the son of van Daan, their first kiss, her emotions. When she wrote this diary, she wasn't much younger than me. I understand her feelings and thoughts. I felt the same when a first love had come into my heart. During the reading I was going through her feelings as my own. Relationship with Peter was the most positive event in that period of her life.
This is an amazing story! Anne's bravery and perseverance delight. Unfortunately, the girl did not live up to the liberation of Holland, but in this diary we can learn about all her thoughts and feelings.
This book written as a diary of a teenage girl made a deep impression on me. Before that I had never thought about how the Jews lived and what they felt during the Second World War. This diary has given me the opportunity to immerse myself in the events of the past, to experience it as my own, to penetrate into the image and thoughts of that girl who wanted to live and love. She was too young to die, to the last page I hoped she would remain alive, but only her diary manage to survive until the present day. This diary sends events more sincerely than any other historical source.
