Choosing a career is not an easy task, especially if you have to choose between well-paid but uninteresting profession and low-paid but attractive for you. In many cases people face this complicated choice. The factors to be considered, pros and cons for every choice, will be discussed in my essay.
One can find a number of ideas for profitable but boring job. Undisputedly, money brings freedom to choose from variety of opportunities, including medical care, kind of food to eat, conditions of life, ways of spare time spending and even relations. Lives of successful pop-stars, politicians and sportsmen provide us with examples of well-being. 
 Much money increases the life standards. For instance, more sufficient medical care is available for well-paid people. The more you pay the better service you get. For those who hold a higher post more expensive medical insurance is available. 
Moreover, having much money allows visiting luxury restaurants and buy food in expensive super-markets. Undoubtedly, affluent people live in more comfortable houses with snazzy conditions of live in luxuriant city districts, forming community of well-to-do people. Salary seems to be the most important factor when you understand how amazing your free time spending can be, namely, travelling by personal yacht, staying in best hotels, shopping on grand scale in Milan and London etc.
Furthermore, level of wealth forms environment of rich people around a prosperous person. Like calls to like. And even the relations between a women and a man are determined by money. For understandable reasons a rich guy is more attractive to women as a future spouse.
Though salary seems to be the most important consideration for the reasons stated above, the other side of the coin is that people are captured by desire for luxury out of vanity. True prosperity is impossible without daily activities satisfaction, be it job in a company or work in an art sphere. Randy Gage a famous American author, business coach explains the laws of prosperity in his books and seminars. In his opinion, money is blessing and a tool to be happy. But it won't bring real happiness and prosperity unless a person gets satisfaction of his job every day.
Can you imagine doing what you really hate eight hours a day, five days a week or even more? It's hard to believe, but the majority of people experiences it throughout their lives, having only several weeks a year for vacation.  When a person works just for money, hating his/her job, he is always just on the way to the goal of prosperous living. Let me explain, what I mean, he thinks: "In some years I'll not have to work, I'll  swim in luxury, but before I need to work day and night, to do what I hate". But tomorrow never comes and life is spent on unloved activities. 
What's more, a person who does not like his job becomes nervous and feels depressed. This leads to poor health and problems with family relations. It is hard to imagine, how many marriages ruined because partners devoted their lives to hateful jobs.
Thus, salary is not the most important factor to consider when choosing a career or a job. One should pay attention to personal preferences. We should not forget that money of course is important but not the key factor. Job satisfaction is equally valuable.  It is impossible to buy spoilt health and broken relations for money or to live doing what you hate. Wish to be rich is right only if you want to become prosperous by getting satisfaction from what you are doing. Randy Gage, mentioned above, believes that using your potential, your appetite for some sphere will bring you to prosperity quickly.
To sum up, considering all pros and cons of two approaches of career choosing, namely the most important is money and the most important is job satisfaction, brings me to conclusion that both factors are equally important. I hope I have managed to prove it in my essay.
