Over-reliance on modern technology means that people are failing to learn, or are forgetting, many basic skills.
To what extent is this true? Are people becoming so reliant on modern technology that they are no longer able to do some things without it?
The 21st century is a period when the development of modern technology has been increased dramatically. Without doubts, it is a great stride for mankind. However, there is an opinion that its consequences can be really destroyable. 
Some people sure that nowadays technology does work that people should do on their own. For instance, when a person lets her or his washing machine launder clothes so the person can forget how to wash by own hands. For one more example, if anybody drove a car with a GPS, then this person would not be able to find a right way without the gadget. All in all, the main point of these people that modern technology brings the world to a new one where all people become too stupid to do anything using their own brains instead of computers.
Personally I am absolutely sure that thinking in such way is not right. Undoubtedly, there are a lot of problems that are bound up with technologies. Some people often have a really strong dependence on different gadgets and the Internet. But this dependence appears not because they cannot do elementary actions by themselves, and therefore technologies are like virtual drugs for such people. I think that it is a real problem, however, it is not a disadvantage of modern technology but of people’s weakness. 
As for me, I do not mind whether people might lose their basic skills using computers and phones and etc. Why do we need them if we created different machines to do work for us? Anyway the most important skill we never lose is ability to survive.  From ancient times people have been creating different tools in order to make their daily life easier. And today we maintain an evolutionary symbiosis with modern technology and it’s great!
To sum up, despite of many problems that we have with machines modern technology does what it really should. It provides humanity with gadgets that can satisfy any needs.
