Review
John Lyons. Componential analysis.In  Linguistic Semantics. pp. 107-114.
Initially being a philosophical object of discussions, eventually, componential analysis has its extension by linguists. The evidence of that occurrence could be sustained by recognition of what componential analysis is intended for. And namely, it is usually used for the description of words in terms of set of their minimal elements of sense, to be more precise, it means analyzing semantic componentsof words and their possible combinations.
In the reviewed chapterinterested readers, especially linguists, may see that occurrencebrought under comprehensive consideration made by its author, John Lyons.Explaining in detail, he begins with simple words like "man" or "woman" which are divided, for example, to such sense-components as "human", "female" and "adult". In the same manner he introduces negation-operator-a straight opposition of semantic meaningfor some universals ("male" or "adult") tobe taken as basic ones to facilitate the analysis. Equally important, Lyons notes that notion of compositionality takes a central place in formal semantics that is close in meaning to mathematical "function". To illustrate the idea he addresses to predicates and adds variables, making componential analysis more complicated but easier for defining not only nouns but also verbsand even sentences.
From the beginning to the end of the chapter Lyons presents  gradually complicated methods of componential description, introducing new types of componential analysis to make it moreequitant for readers. Moreover, last paragraphs are assigned to show problems or confusing features of analysis in general.
Despite some theoretical and empirical flaws mentioned by Lyons, componential analysis, likewise called "lexical decomposition", has shown some advantages in practical implications. This could be, for example, its effectiveprototypical usage, universality of sense-components, marking semantic zones or facilitationof analysisby giving precise definitions of words utilizingtheir componential meanings.All mentioned above, those qualities are essential in semantic annotation or some computer-directed tasks. At the same time it appears that compositionality has its metaphorical non-expanding because of transferring a meaning, or semantic interaction sometimes taken as a shortage, or inaccuracy of some definitions in some difficult cases.
On the whole, every theory may have its drawbacks, but componential principle proves its versatility and universal maxims by convincing demonstration why does that principle isstillwidely accepted by many linguists. So, the chapter provides students, as its potential readers, with comprehensive information and examples on the concerned issue. Here it is worth mentioning that Lyons gives readers many examples to study but unfortunately the material used is provided only in English. Eventually, the whole chapter is written using comprehensive analysis, it has no logic or structure flaws, so the information stated there may be confidently used by such specialists as linguists or interested students.