Introduction
Today typological study of the systems of linguistic meanings is primarily understood as grammatical typology. While the typology of grammatical categories has seen significant progress, lexical typology is still in its infancy and this is due to a number of reasons.
First, the crosslinguistic analysis of the lexicon is more time-consuming than that of grammatical meanings. The latter commonly relies on existing grammars, and therefore can operate with samples consisting of hundreds of languages. For lexical typology this number of languages can hardly be reached as the choice of languages depends a lot on practical matters such as the availability of resources. Second, in contrast to the typology of grammatical categories, in lexical typology lexical oppositions have no special formal indicators therefore, it is rather difficult to find them in language.
So, traditionally, lexical typology has mostly confined itself to a very limited amount of languages. Therefore, we find it reasonable to refine the existing approach to lexical typology and develop new methods of data collection.
In this paper we propose an extensive typological investigation on the basis of about a hundred languages. Unlike the previous projects (for example: the study of aquamotion predicates in Maisak, Rakhilina 2007), this research is dictionary-based. For the development of this study, the adjective 'old' was taken as the object of research. By using a dictionary-based method and with the experts' assistance we will come to the conclusion whether it is possible to carry out a reliable typological analysis of semantics of 'old' using only dictionary entries.
The method used in this paper involves three stages: the hypothesis, based on the previous studies (Rakhilina 2008); collecting the materials, using more than a hundred bilingual dictionaries; our analyses and the experts' verifications and comments. The findings show that the approach yields a high percentage of reliable data. The precision is only moderately high, mainly due to ambiguity problems of the examples given in the dictionary entries.
This paper will proceed as follows. In Section 1 we outline the general ideas of our project. Section 2 focuses on the theoretical bases of our research (Rakhilina 2008) and summarizes its main principles. Section 3 describes the process of collecting and analyzing data. In Section 4 we discuss some difficulties that we have faced while working with dictionary entries. In Section 5 we provide a list of dictionaries that are suitable for lexical typology.

