      "The growing pains of Adrian Mole" has been one of my favourite books since I first read it. It is the second book in the series of comic novels written by a contemporary English author Sue Townsend.
The narration is carried out in the following way: this is a diary of 15-years-old boy from Leicester.
He appreciates himself as an intellectual person, writes poems and wishes them to be published (and he has already had two rejection letters from the BBC). 
Adrian confides to his diary all his feelings: his anxiety about potential nuclear war, uneasiness about probable divorce of his parents, dissatisfaction about his relationships with Pandora Braithwaite (the love of Adrian's life), fear of Barry "Baz" Kent (hooligan), anxiety for Bert Baxter, an old-age pensioner whom Adrian cares of, jealousy to his newborn sister, who is at the centre of attention of his parents, fear not to pass an examination.
      Through the prism of Adrian's perception, we can observe the UK under Margaret Thatcher's government. For example, social questions such as unemployment are raised in the book. Adrian even wrote a seditious poem consecrated to the Prime Minister ("the sort of poem that could bring the government to its knees", as he supposed). We also can see how Adrian changes his opinion about the war with Argentina. Primarily, the war had inspired him with patriotic feeling but after he watched the Falklands Memorial Service on TV, saw widows and bereaved people, he went home and "chucked his Falklands campaign map in the bin". It was one of the most impressive episodes in the book.
      The book is also about the striving of moral support. Adrian suffers from 'the lack of morals in society'. Adrian wishes to assume faith and talks with vicar about that, but the vicar couldn't help him. Despaired of finding moral values that he could to rely, Adrian joins to the Barry Kent's gang, but quits it shortly after. Depressed by his "present miserable existence" Adrian leaves home with his dog and lives in the streets for one week.
	At long last, Pandora brought Adrian back to life.
