Hello Mr.Smith!
I made a careful analyze of this problem, made monitoring and here my conclusions and suggestions.
Most of our employees are women, in age before 40 and they have children of the age of primary school. So the first reason why a lot of employees leave early or come late to work - they go to the doctor with their children. Also the atmosphere in our company is very friendly and a lot of employees sea eye to eye to each other and spend their free time together with their families. And of course children connect with each other, if one child is ill another will fill ill for sure. 
Another reason it is our building. It is really old; the date of its building is nearly 50 years ago. We have old windows, and bad central heat. So in cold weather the temperature inside is lower the norm. At the same time the ventilation is bad too, it is stifling indoors. Our employees have to open windows and the temperature becomes lower, of course it is caused illnesses among employees. After they infect their children and make longer their days off for medical reasons.
Now we could see a chain of arising illnesses in our company.
And here are my suggestions. At first I recommend to make a repair in our building, to change windows and repair central heat. After that measures the temperature becomes stable. And of course to clean the ventilation - to prevent opening windows in cold weather.
Also I persuade you to give 30% grant for gym or swimming pool for our employees. It is very important for their health going in for sport, because most of the time they spend sitting on the chair, without moving. It could cause a lot of different illnesses connecting with back, legs and others. 
And of course I suggest you to think about their children health too. In my opinion it will be interesting for our employees and won't cause lots of losses to make summer camp for the children. For example in the South countries where we have offices too, on the seaside. For the half-price for the child. It brings health to our children and our employees won't spend time for visiting the doctor.
So in conclusion, if we make a repair of our office, the temperature indoors will be comfortable. If our employees stop feeling cold, they will be healthy. If they are healthy, their relatives/children will be healthy too. If their families are healthy they won't take days off for medical reasons and our company won't take losses by this reason.
