"A Clockwork Orange" by Antony Burgess isn’t a lightweight reading at all. On contrary, it’s shocking and disgusting, I had the impression that I was right in the middle of a maelstrom of filth, violence, rapes, crimes, blood, drugs and Beethoven’s music. But some interesting ideas are hidden among all these horrible things. That’s story of the young man, Alex, and his “droogs”, they love to have fun (it means doing the ultra-violence) in night time, like to rob a store, to rape some pretty “ptisas”, to have a fight with another gang or to bully some passersby. All the first part is the description of their atrocities. They came into a house of an old man, a writer, abused his wife in front of him, beat him and destroyed a manuscript of his novel “A Clockwork Orange” as the culmination of their night adventures. But this time they couldn’t keep their hands clean, especially Alex. The old woman died, “millicents” catch and imprisoned Alex because his “droogs” weren’t the real ones and betrayed him. In part two Alex was given a sort of medical help, horrible as all his past deeds. After that one he got a disgust reaction on any violence he was doing or he saw. In the third part he got returned to the society and transformed slowly into the new man he has never been before. All his deeds returned to him and he finally understood that there are some completely different values he wants bring to life. Anthony Burgess has written his novel as a reaction on all the cultural and historical background of his time. His wife was raped and beaten by drunk American deserters during World War II. She has lost her baby, and after that she tried to make suicide repeatedly and ruined herself by drinking. This accident initiated the idea to write the novel and was reflected there. But the main source of inspiration Burgess found in the atmosphere of England of his time. The novel is full of the horror and a strange beauty that the lost generation brings with itself. But Burgess proves us that even the most rotten man has a possibility to change his wrong moral values to the right ones.
I can’t say that I took a lot from this book. I’ve read some other dystopias, Zamyatin’s “We” is my favorite, and they seem to me more developed and thought-provoking. “A Clockwork Orange” isn’t a book written for public, it was written for the author himself like a diary. I don’t really think that idea of Burgess was to tell that’s everyone can be justified, he wants just show his pain. The scene of the raping is one of the most naturalistic scenes I’ve ever read, and it isn’t good in that case. If writer wants his book to change people, to make them think, he needs to use the other sort of psychological pressing. For example, "We" includes very realistic scene of tortures, but I still adore this book. Maybe, because it doesn't contain any realistic situation of violence. So, as for me, a book has to have a realistic description of unreal violence, and vice versa. In case of the naturalistic description of a situation in that I can imagine myself, the book stops to be attractive to me.
Also, a few words about Kubrick’s film: I don’t like it too. His vision of Alex is great, awesome, fantastic, hitting the nail on the head. But after the scene of raping, which has already been told about, I realized that I can’t stand it anymore. There were two main reasons.  The former is that that very scene can’t be beautiful, because it’s based on real accident, it can’t be even this horror-beauty type, it must be frightening and disgusting. The latter is that none of the types of violence can be romanticized. Art is the one of the most powerful instrument of the influence on people’s mind. So, if art shows violence like something elegant, something that can be admires, it makes people think that violence is elegant. But it’s not!
Finally, I want to say that, although this book isn’t the most pleasant of all the books I’ve ever read, it helped me to understand better my preferences and my attitudes towards the description of the negative traits of human nature.
