Modern linguistics is facing a lot of various problems nowadays. One of the most essential of them is the problem of breaking down the language barriers with the help of computer. The idea of machinery translation has existed for quite a long time - more than 60 years. During this period a huge amount of programs and many major projects were made in hope to help people get rid of the problem of understanding each other. Unfortunately, the quality of this kind of translation is still far from perfect and the dream of translating articles and feature text is remaining a dream.
In my opinion, the problem of translating with the help of the computer is very hard to solve, if ever possible. The main reason of it is the fact that there are no rules of the "right" translation. Translating text is not like mathematics where one has just to replace one symbol with another. In linguistics this way won't work if you want your text to have any sense in the result. Besides, making up a translation program requires "teaching" it various rules of grammar, phonetics, vocabulary and other aspects of languages. The problem is that almost every rule has some exceptions so there is no "perfect" language with rules working absolutely the same anywhere (I guess, such a language would be a dream of translating programs and translators in common). It means such a program should also be able to find out such exceptions and translate them correctly, and this task is not as easy as it may seem.
Another problem of translation programs is their incapacity of translating some words and phrases correctly. The reason is that many words have different meaning in different situations and a machine translator is usually not able to mind the context. Besides, translating programs often can't spot the idioms and translate them just as a set of words. All you need to see how imperfect such programs are is to enter any of them and try to translate some sentence (for example, a proverb) into another language and then back. After a couple of such translations there and back again the result will be rather different from the original and will probably change its meaning completely...or lose it.
So, machinery translation has pretty much to improve. And yet I think this kind of translation will never become perfect because ability to translate means ability to think like a man. So people won't be able to teach computers to translate properly until they teach them to think at least like themselves.