In today's fast-moving world blogs are becoming immensely popular, people are beginning to realize just how much owning a blog can help them and it could be a great option for all. 
First reason why blogging is so popular is that it is surprisingly easy. People of any skill level can create it. Although in the past you had to be somewhat skilled at web design in order to create an online presence, however nowadays there are plenty of tools and themes out there that can make building and maintaining a blog very easy. You don't have to write your blog posts like you are writing for a famous magazine or a respectable newspaper. There's no need to worry about this process. Do the best that you can, use spell-checking tools and other resources when you need it, and show off your favorite graphics or photographs instead of writing long posts. 
Second reason is that blogging allows you to show off your skills. By starting your own blog, you are giving yourself your own medium for promoting yourself and making yourself look your best. Since you control your blog, and you can focus on showing off your skills without also displaying your weaknesses. It is obviously that a blog that you control gives you unlimited opportunities to express your personality.
If you are a talented writer, you can write beautiful blog posts that will intrigue others, for instance, photographers, graphic designers and web designers can use their blog to show the world just how skilled they are. Sometimes your blog can work as a living resume that could help you to find and catch opportunities that you were not even aware existed. Furthermore, whether you own your own business or prefer freelance work, it is important for you to get your name out there. A blog gives you a perfect opportunity to promote yourself or your business to others. It can be much more profitable because by focusing on a specific topic you’ll be able to find advertisers and sell products more efficiently. 
I think that personal blogs are the most readable at present. These are blogs that people have built solely based around their personality and things happening in their life. An example of this would be Dooce.com and TheBloggess.com. Also I think there are two categories of personal blogs. The first one refers to the bloggers who were already famous before they jumped on the web. This includes television and movie celebrities, sport celebrities, music celebrities and so on. The second category refers to bloggers who were not famous before starting their blogs, but who are incredibly funny, or live an incredibly interesting life, or all of these. Actually, I’m not a big fan of personal blogs, but for many reading them is already included in their daily activities. Most blogs I read are blogs that are informative in nature and that I can learn and gain personal value from.  I might read a celebrity blog for entertainment. For example I really like the Olivia Palermo’s style blog. I adore her looks and don’t know anyone who would have the same sense of style. 
