«Life, he realized, was much like a song. In the beginning there is mystery, in the end there is confirmation, but it's in the middle where all the emotion resides to make the whole thing worthwhile.»
Nicholas Sparks
«The last song.»
Do you remember your first quarrel with parents? Have you ever dreamed to forget everything and , move to a new place and to start all over again with new people? Do you remember your first true love? If now you remember all the people, events, dramas of your teenage period, then you were a  real teenager as we all were, and certainly  you would understand Ronnie - the main character of the novel by Nicholas Sparks, "The Last Song".
At first glance, it may seem that this novel – one more romantic story for teenage girls. Is the story about love? No. First of all, the novel is about family, about the relationship between father and daughter. And only then, we can say that this novel is about love. Strengths of this book is the description of the relationship between children and parents.
How can you change your mind after got know that soon the closest person would not be alive? A better way is to know nothing at all ... In all that has happened or is going to happen you blame yourself, you do not know how to help and how to bring it all back... But you can do something very important for this person. But how do you know that? Listen to the voice of God, he can scream like a church bell, and can barely whisper ... The main thing is to hear him whatever it is.
Beginning of the story is quite typical. A young girl who is forced to leave for the summer to her father, to whom she has not talked for three years. For her, it is a nightmare  and it seems to the girl that she is not able to survive. Yet it turns out better than she expected, though  she does not understand this right away.  We see the development of relations between daughter and father  through the whole story. From hatred to love and understanding.
As to the first love,  Sparks describe everything  like a fairy tale. Love at first sight, all is corny, but so magical.
Ronnie and Will. The protagonist is the absolute  ideal. Will is rich, handsome, kind, has a good sense of humor and generally he is a decent and intelligent man. I strongly doubt that these guys exist in reality, and if there are, they must be written in the red book as a threatened species. Will is very patient guy. Ronnie’s character is not a gift. For instance, if she has bad mood, she can easily shout at him. Somebody said something bad about his behavior. Why deal? She believes in gossip immediately and again she yells at the guy, and then regrets it. For me, Ronnie became  the main sensation in the world of book teenagers. I really see a developing  person, who is able to think and feel. Actually she is partly a typical girl of her age. Although at first she behaves like a rebel, later we can see that in fact it is not so. I can not really say why I liked Ronnie, I just saw in her a living person, not a cardboard character.
The end of the story. It was a tough finish. I thought for a second that Sparks writes all his novels in a specific pattern. If you remember the  novel "Dear John", you will understand. People meet, then love, beautiful moments, kissing and so on. Then tragedy happens and somebody dies, but all ends well.
This book teaches us to forgive. It is a pity that we are aware of our  mistakes only when  we have lost a dear  person and it is impossible to turn all back. Turning point of the book is the sudden illness of the Ronnie`s father and his death. The only thing that has been always united them - the music. He taught the daughter to play the piano and write music. Therefore, after the death of the father in mourning respect and love for him, Ronnie after a long break, associated with the cessation of contact with the father, again sits down at the piano and play music that has not had time to finish her father. It is finished by Ronnie. It is a pity that the song became the last for her father. 
I also liked the chapter «Ronnie» in which the author describes the beginning of her trip to father. The description fully reflects a depressive mood of the girl. The chapter begins with the words «Ronnie slouched in the front seat of the car. » She is concentrated  at bad things and that is why girl shouts at  the mother, when she hit the pothole: «Thanks for that, by the way/ My head particularly went through the glass. » All that happened when they were driving down  the interstate I-95, which in Ronnie`s opinion was «the most boring stretch of roadway ever concerned.» Zillions of pine trees irritated the girl and lull her to sleep. Just off the bridge they got in traffic jam and it was possible to see the bewitching ocean. But Ronnie was not interested at all, she did not care.
In conclusion I would like to say few words about the author of the novel. Nicholas Sparks is a modern American novelist, who has published 18 books. Almost all of them are love dramas. The style of his life completely reflects in his works. He studied at the Catholic private elite University of  Notre Dame. Nicholas Sparks believes in God  and regularly goes to church with his family. That is why in his there are themes of Christianity, love, tragedy, fate and human feelings. To date, it has been sold about 80 million copies of books Sparks all around the world.
