What do we know about language? Russian children are taught that “great, mighty, truthful, and free Russian tongue” is a precious gem of Russian culture. Even more so it is hard to believe that every spoken word all around is not a pearl of the human spirit, but a manifestation of the Language Instinct of Homo sapiens, as it is argued in the Steven Pinker’s book of the same name.

Pinker defines language as a “distinct piece of the biological makeup of our brains” trying to establish a new approach to the study of the human language. Therefore, language is built into our genes in his view. The structure of creoles, the way children acquiring language, aphasics’’ speech — almost everything can become a lucid case of language innateness in Pinker’s treatment. His style is witty and intelligible: with a sense of (linguistic) humor and subtle irony Pinker leads us through the maze of the human capacity to communicate.   

However, linguistic nativism is not a non-negotiable fact as it seems to be. Too many people take Pinker’s word as gospel, ignoring the fact that his attitude towards language is quite controversial. Language gene is a tempting thing for a layperson, and, to my mind, it is the most reasonable explanation of the popularity of his book.

Randy Harris from the University of Waterloo considered Pinker’s rendering of Noam Chomsky’s ideas “a little sexier than it really is” and advice “to read it cautiously”. So as others: reaction to the book is discrepant. On the one side, Noam Chomsky thinks that it is “an extremely valuable book”. On the other side, many experts disagreed with Pinker. American developmental psychologist Michael Tomasello wrote a book review ironically named “Language is Not an Instinct” to contend with Pinker’s ideas.

As for me, I do not accept even the title of the book. Language is not just an evolutionary behavioral adaptation like spider’s web: it is a very complex thing evolving due to social factors no less than because of mutations in our species’ genome, but I really enjoyed the book. 

“The Language Instinct” is an endeavor to put end in the eternal question “Nature or nurture?” in relation to human language, but it is too early to sequence the language gene: struggle for existence between different theories is going on…
