Critique.
Homonymy and polysemy. 
In the paragraph about homonymy and polysemy from the book by J.Lyons the author defines, describes and aims to distinguish these two phenomena. The author himself states that homonymy and polysemy are sometimes hard to distinguish. The description may give the idea that either the criteria are not sufficient enough or the difference between homonymy and polysemy is so insignificant that the distinction between these notions is almost worthless.
The author starts from the description of the term 'homonymy'. He provides the traditional definition supplied with a clear and bright example of homonyms - nouns 'bank' with different meanings. Then he presents the three clear and understandable criteria of absolute homonymy: homonyms are unrelated in meaning, all their forms are identical, the forms are grammatically equivalent. But the fact of absolute homonymy is less frequent than the following one. The author introduces the notion of partial homonymy, which is definitely wider and has more flexible criteria than absolute homonymy. These criteria suggested by the author are: identity in at least one form and satisfying one of the criteria of absolute homonymy - it should be the absence of lexical relation. Lyons presents a pair of partial homonyms: the verbs 'find' and 'found' which have the same form of 'found'. Using these verbs in the appropriate contexts the author illustrates lexical and grammatical ambiguity that can occur. The author also gives the examples where the ambiguity does not occur because of the particular grammatical rules. Lyons continues giving several examples of partial homonymy which does not produce any ambiguity. Thus, the author comes to the conclusion that for semantics the degree of homonymy is the most essential issue. 
Next, the author provides the definition of the notion 'polysemy'. He claims that it is not always obvious whether the certain case is the phenomenon of homonymy or ambiguity.  Lyons explains that polysemy concerns the lexemes which have been historically derived from the same root. He does not illustrate polysemy or provide any context for it, he only explains why particular lexemes ('bat'-animal and 'bat'-implement in games, 'sole'-part of shoe and 'sole'-fish) are not polysemous but homonymous: they have different origin. The author states that the clue for the distinction polysemy from homonymy is etymology. However, it is a highly subjective criterion which can be checked in dictionaries or with the help of introspection which is normally available for native speakers only.
Therefore, the definition of polysemy turns into quite subjective guesses, which makes this notion almost useless. The existence of polysems does not make any additional confusion for the speaker or the hearer. The understanding of the speech does not depend on whether the words have the same origin or not, in other words - whether they are polysems or homonyms. Thus, the level of ambiguity produced by homonyms and polysems seems to be the same. Moreover, they look similar and difference is solely etymology. I am sure that when the English speakers hear the word 'bat' or Russian speakers - the word 'коса' ('kosa') the origin of these words means not much for them. The thing that plays role is the context an the meaning which the word has in it. The only area where the distinction between homonymy and polysemy is essential is creating dictionaries: the words should go into one or different entries depending on their origin. However, while using dictionaries the speakers or the learners of the language may not pay attention to the fact that the words go to the one or two different entries. So, may be the language doe not need the two terms, but there could be a universal notion for 'the words with the same spelling but different meaning'. 
To sum up, the paragraph devoted to homonymy and polysemy gives the definition for these terms, but does not explain clearly how to distinguish one notion from another. Anyway, it motivates to practice in distinction these notions and to support or to argue against this distinction.


