One of the eternal problems that we face every day is the problem of transportation of both people and various objects. It is evident that this problem has existed since appearing of rudiments  of civilization and most probably will remain urgent in at least next 100 years. So, what makes this problem so viable ? In my point of view, there are three main aspects: vehicle capacity, fuel usage and speed of transportation. The first point is the ability to transport heavy loads. This aspect will become especially actual with the establishment of space flights. Such flights will demand quite a lot of people to be transported at once so there will probably be kinds of towns built on such space ships. Anyway, the key moment of solving this problem is finding of sufficient amount of fuel for filling up such vehicles which leads us to the second aspect. Searching of the appropriate kind of fuel is also urgent because since the threat of  running out of fossil fuels appeared the mankind has become especially concerned with looking for some inexhaustible substitutes of them. There are already cars working on such fuels as electricity or solar power. Another advantage of such kinds of fuel is the absence of nature pollution. However, the quantity of such vehicles is very small and their prices are too high so far. The last and probably the most important point is the speed of loads transportation. The most ideal (and the least possible) kind of a vehicle in this aspect is the teleportation platform. However, some people are against such a way of traveling because it will deprive them of movement and therefore lead to self-destruction. But as for me, I think this should not be a reason for concern because with teleportation people will have more spare time to spend it on self-exercising and self-cultivation. So, what should be the main characteristics of the transport in the future? First, it should be capable to transport large amounts of loads. Second, it should be as fast as possible. And finally, it should consume renewable kinds of fuel.  Though vehicles combining all these qualities don't exist yet, who knows...maybe, we don't have have to wait for long.