The experiment guided by Lera Borodiski, an American psycholinguist, revealed that native speakers of different languages have completely different associative links. During the experiment native English and Indonesian speakers were given three images that pictured a man with a ball. In two of them there was the same man (he was about to kick a ball and he has just kicked a ball) and in two of them were different men, but both of these men were about to kick a ball. The participants of the experiment had to choose two of three pictures that were the most similar in their opinion. In fact, English tended to choose pictures with the same action of them and the Indonesian mostly chose pictures representing the same man.

According to the theory of Whorf and Sapir our worldview, our perception and way of thinking are determined by the structure of our native language. The intellection of each person is shaped by the features of his/her language. Furthermore, speakers of each language perceive, understand and memorize any event, any situation in their own way. And this agrees well with the results of the aforementioned experiment. 

Consequently Indonesian, who associated pictures with the same person of them in general seem to be more opened and hospital, they seem to pay more attention to people around them, to their characters, to their personal particularities, to their emotions.  English on the contrary chose two images picturing the same action are likely to attach more importance to what other people do, to what's happening around them. Considering the human aspect of the "Indonesian" way of thinking I can also suppose that native Indonesian speakers are more emotional themselves, than English, who are in fact more restrained and discreet, who respect their and other's personal space, who pay more attention to actions and events.

After all, multiple language features widely affect our mental life. People's intellection represents a complex set of vocal and non vocal functions and it's probably that few mental processes are operated without using speech functions, without the influence of language particularities. Our language is our way of perception, of thinking, of understanding the world, it determines our ways of interaction with the environment. Learning the effects of language on the intellection people can understand how the system of knowledges about the reality and its rules is formed by human brain, in fact it is what differs us from other mammals, what makes us people.
