Globalization has become one of the most debated contemporary issues. In today’s fast-moving world a lot of people maintain that globalization is a very controversial phenomenon and has mostly negative consequences. However, others, and I am among them, disagree with this idea. 
From my point of view, the world that we live nowadays is shaped by the fusing of different cultures. For instance, languages, movies, musical and cooking styles have spread due to globalization. Modern societies created a whole new culture of their own as they have welcomed people of other civilizations and backgrounds. Moreover, today everyone can freely travel around the world in search of the best educational opportunities. A person can go to another country or even continent for a new experience, which she/he may not find in her/his homeland. Actually, when we are discussing globalization, we must not forget about its impact on the improvement of the produce quality. As domestic companies have to fight out foreign competition, they are forced to raise their standards and customer satisfaction levels in order to survive in the market, thereby customer service leads to improved quality of products and services.
The opposing opinion is that many firms in developed nations, in order to cut down costs, have redirected their manufactures to countries, where labor is cheaper. Many people argue that these actions have led to an increase in activities such as child labor and slavery. Corporations employing children can work smoothly in Third-World countries, where there is little accountability. Big companies can also bribe officials, which naturally leads to an increase in illegal activities and crime.
I can’t agree with my opponents. I believe that these days, due to internationalization of law enforcement, criminals can no longer seek asylum in a foreign country and are thus eventually brought to justice regardless of their whereabouts. 
All in all, it is up to each person to decide whether globalization is beneficial or not, but I am sure that its pluses definitely outweigh its minuses.
