Componential analysis is a method typical for structural semantics which analyzes the structure of a word's meaning. In the book 'Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction' there is the chapter which covers this topic. The author, John Lyons, presents this method and explains its structure by providing several examples.
John Lyons introduces the term of componential analysis, also known as lexical decomposition. It refers to the description of the meaning of words through structured sets of semantic features. He shows how this method works on several examples: words man, woman, boy and girl. The componential analysis of the word man looks like HUMAN & MALE & ADULT. The word girl can be defined as HUMAN & -MALE & -ADULT, where the negation-operator shows negative component of adult and means NON-ADULT, same to -MALE = FEMALE. Due to these analyses the method of lexical decomposition seems to be simple and understandable. However, it has some theoretical flaws which are inapplicable.
All examples presented in the chapter were nouns. There were no analyses of words of other parts of speech. If we try to analyze a verb, an adjective or an adverb, this method is not likely to work properly. Moreover, the same is for metaphors and abstract nouns. Thus, this method work with different parts of speech improperly.
Sense-components in the theory of lexical decomposition are presented as binary or two-valued variables (e.g. +/‒ ADULT). This fact can complicate analyses of words. For instance, the word teenager is defined as 'a person who is not a child and still not an adult'. Thus, in terms of componential analysis this word will consist of ‒ADULT & +CHILD sense-components which exclude each other. The extra symbol would simplify this description.
If we try to analyze the word lion according to this theory, its componential analysis will look like ANIMAL & MALE & CAT & ADULT. At the same time, this analysis also can define the word cat. If we add sense-component WILD to the analysis of the word lion, it will differ from the analysis of the word cat and become more specific and detailed. However, the main point of this method is its simplicity and it should not be complicated.
In spite of its disadvantages, this framework can be useful in elementary machine translation, data search and electronic dictionaries due to their mathematical and logical structure.
To sum up, I would like to say that this theory has guided a valuable research to linguistics. However, the framework itself is not studied sufficiently. The chapter would have been clearer and more useful if componential analysis had been widened and improved in some other researches. Nevertheless, it has considerable historical importance and is still widely accepted.

John Lyons (1981), Componential analysis, Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction, pp. 107-114
