Book review Nicholas Sparks «The Notebook»
    I have chosen to review “The Notebook” by Nicholas Sparks, this book was and is  popular among various ages and genders. Nicholas wrote it just during 6 months in 1996, later it was adapted into a movie (had the same name) which appeared in 2004.According to the information from Wikipedia this book was one of New York’s bestsellers for two years in 1996-1997 and then in September 2004.This information proves the fact that ”the movie gave the book a second life”.
  A very interesting fact is that this book shows us the story about grandparents of Nicholas wife, who had been married for more than 60 years. Author’s wife always praised them as the best example of pure love. . It is not surprising that the story of long and beautiful love inspired Nicholas to write his novel. In particular, the book has a highly strong narrative part, given by a master plot. The novel comprises ten chapters and there are two main characters: and Noah Calhoun.

Noah Calhoun was the narrator of his own life and the main story of the book. He was a very handsome and kind person. He fell in love with Allie for more than fourteen years before the beginning of the novel. He fought in the II World War to defend his homeland, and he wrote the letters to his love all this time. He never had forgotten Allie and had been very happy, when one day she came to visit his new house.
Allison Nelson was a  girl from a privileged family. She was very sympathetic and attractive.
She fell in love with Noah who was from a family of ordinary workers.
Allie spent a wonderful summer with him, but she was forced by her parents to break up with Noah, because of his social class. Later she met Lon and became engaged to him, but something was troubling her, and she decided to return to Noah, not to make a mistake.

 The book begins from the introduction of the main character, Noah Calhoun.
He characterized his life “as a blue chip stock: fairly stable, more ups than downs, and gradually trending upward with time.” He continued the narration describing the story of his life, which involved both romance and tragedy, paths and choices he had to make.
After introduction the main character  took The Notebook, the book where all the best moments of his life were collected and went to a nursing home, where his beloved wife was treated . Visiting her was a daily need for both of them .
Everyday he took her for a walk, than seated her in a comfortable chair and began reading stories from the Notebook in order to help at least for a minute remind her of him. She didn’t remember him because she was memory loss.
Their love story started in summer, it was summer of mad love.
She was 15, he was 17.Allie was a girl from a wealthy family, and Noah - the son of a woodcutter.
In the south of America the origin of person was very important .Then many years of separation .
It is believed that for real feelings barriers and obstacles, are like the wind to fire - only brighter flares .
But only if you know that somebody loves and waits for you .None of the two lovers knew that thing.
Noah had written 365 letters to Allie, but her mother Anne Hamilton didn’t deliver them to her daughter. Three years later, the United States of America joined the World War II and Noah with his best friend Fin enlisted in the army. 
Allie worked as an army nurse in hospital, where she cured an injured soldier, Lon Hammond.
After the war, they met again and Lon, who was wealthy and handsome, proposed her to marry .
Meanwhile Noah bought and restored the old house .It became very popular and many people wanted to buy this house.
When Allie accidentally saw the photo of Noah in a newspaper she needed to make a chose, which was not so easy. Would Ally stay with one of the richest lawyer of the South America or would she choose Noah who really loved her? At this moment the readings stops, because Allie’s and Noah’s children came to hospital.
The main theme of this novel is love. However, a  part of it is dedicated to various conflicts. Some of them are social, such as the conflict between Noah and Allie’s parents, who didn’t think he was good enough for their daughter.
 I would like to express my view of the book from positions of critical and sympathetic readers..A union of Noah and Allie was a union of two creative people and had another talent – love .How beautiful and smart guys were next to Allie, how many women met Noah after breaking up with Ally, but nobody of them was as magical as Ally was, with none of them he felt the fullness of life. 
The story of pure love in literature most of all ends tragic, for instance the story of Romeo and Juliet. The story of Noah and Ally is not an exception. Fate played over them in their old age "bad joke ",how says Noah himself :”not to recognize the person in front of you, in fact, is the parting forever”.
It is very difficult to cure this disease, but it can overcome a great sense of love, against the terrible diagnosis through to the native soul in order to be for some time together.
To sum up, this novel is not an "ideal love novel" but a novel about a real love.
We read about feelings of ordinary men and women, and this story could have happened with anyone.
I think, it is very easy to answer the question why this book became an absolute bestseller in the USA.
Firstly, because such story can melt the heart of any reader. Secondly, because the book provokes a storm of emotions. Even if Spark’s language is simple and lacks exquisite style, the reader still empathizes with the heroes and gets involved in their moral dilemmas. The book is very touching, and I think many of us will cry after finishing it .It’s amazing how a personal love story can magically speak to all of us, playing on the same strings in every single heart. This book teaches us  to “follow your heart.”
(pg. 139; These are Allie’s mother’s parting words to her.) It learns us to love deeply enough to awake every sacred melody of the heart.
People who don't like this book first, usually return to it after they’ve experienced the joy and sorrow of love. It is hard to explain how author of "The Notebook" can look so deep into our souls, but I suggest everybody to read it in order to experience it yourself!
