Componential analysis is a recently theory that helps to make sense-relations between lexemes very exact and well defined. Despite the fact that it became widespread among linguists not so long ago, it has a long history in philosophical discussions of languages.
Another name of componential analysis is lexical decomposition. That term helps to rival a meaning of this theory. According to it, all words can be decomposed into the sense-components, which represent meaning of them. In the chapter of Lyons book, devoted to this theory, author shows some basic things on the simple example: he characterized words "man", "woman", "boy" and "girl" by using such descriptive words as "human", "male/female" and "(non)adult". Besides, he make another good example, which can assist to better understand how to use it. He compare the theory of componential analysis with a mathematical exercise of this kind: 30 = 2 * 3 * 5.In addition to that, there are two types of meaning. First one is a one-place predicates, expression which has only one place to be filled. For instance, "John". This word can be only associated  with a "boy". Second one is a two-place predicates, expression which has more than one place to be filled. For example, verb - "hit" and noun "mother". The word "mother" can be decomposed on "parent" and "female".
The theory of componential analysis, like any other theory, has some advantages and disadvantages.  On the one hand, it is not able to explain metaphors, semantic interactions and imprecise definitions, furthermore there are a great deal of different problems with decomposition of words with complicated meanings. Also that theory has practical problem, connected with a lexicography, because it is not always possible to find a word with a certain sense, that disturbs to express real meaning of definable word. 
On the other hand, the theory of componential analysis give a possibility to divide words into various groups, which can be useful with working on them. For instance, it is more easier to find synonyms and antonyms. Moreover the theory very helpful for some linguistics computer-assisted research, because of semantic annotation and directed tasks. Also, thanks to the great deal of different function, it really could aid people to realize some language regulation and rightly analyze meaning of words.
To my mind, the theory of componential analysis is rather important theory, which present possibility to better understand language and it's diverse relations between different words and lexemes. However, in my view, it is not so convenient to use that in real life, and I suppose, that it is good for semantic annotation for computer or may be for some types of dictionaries, but not for humans.


