Many people say that true pieces of art remain up-to-date for hundreds of years. They think that this kind of books is timeless. I agree with this point of view.	Everyone who used to study at school knows that children have to read some classical novels and short stories. This is being done because literature helps children to form their view of the world, it shows how people act in different situations and under different circumstances. It helps to create an image of life and makes them understand what is good and what is bad. Of course, it can only be done with the help of books that appeared long time ago so that people have already realized their value.	What is more, people often read books in order to find some kind of advice in them. This happens because they trust those who has written the books, they believe the stories they read and they find out that situations that happen to them are already mentioned in literature. This means that the described stories happen nowadays even though the books were written long before we read them.	 As we see, similar events take place in people's lives, and this makes people believe that although times change people remain almost the same. As for me, it is a relief: I know that I am not the first person who thinks about some events, or facts, or concepts. I can compare other people's points of view to mine.	Some people may disagree. For example, they can say that some important events, such as wars, depressions and other global processes, have changed the society, and this would mean that things that used to be important are not important now. I can't agree with that. People still feel fear, happiness, pain and gratitude, which means that there is no big difference between us and those who were described in the books that were written several centuries ago.	People may also argue that the books can't present solutions to all of the problems people have. I partly agree with that: literature can't describe everything that may happen, but it gives the model of what to do. It helps to see the effect that actions can cause, and, according to that, people come up with their own ideas. This shows us that books help people in their everyday life yet they were written, for example, 200 years ago. In conclusion I'd like to say that no two minds think alike, and that's why there can be different opinions on this topic.