Nowadays the term of creativity is becoming more and more popular. It is quite common to hear it on TV, or to read about it in books, especially in psychology.  But nobody knows exactly what creativity actually means and where it comes from. There are a lot of opinions about this topic.
From my point of view, creativity is the unusual way of thinking attained when a person goes off the beaten track to find a solution to a problem or come up with a new, effective way to achieve a goal. These days, if you would like to get a job, you should be a few steps ahead  your rivals. A very good way to achieve this is to develop an extraordinary new method of thinking about ideas and problems at work because most  directors of different companies definitely prefer something that differs from existing solutions. Secondly, creativity makes your life easier. If you escape the usual methods of trying to make a decision in daily life situations and  just look at the problem from another angle , there is a  possibility that you will find a much better option, which suits you perfectly and fixes the problem. Moreover, a creative way of thinking makes your life bright and fashionable. By using your imagination and creativity you can design the interior of your house or create your own unique style of dress.  More importantly, I think all people are creative to some extent.  Creativity can appear in anything : from designing and creating new things to unforgettable kindness  and in the ability to communicate. Everyone is unique in their own way, which they should find and follow.
However, some people say that creativity prevents people from living an ordinary life. They say that creative people are not able to get on with people around them, and consequently they have problems at work as well as at home. But in my opinion, creative ways of thinking conversely help people to solve their problems easily and fast. Furthermore, there is the opinion that creative people are very reserved and anti-social.  I totally disagree with this because, in my experience, they are very nice people and usually they have lots of friends. Finally, there are those that believe that not everyone is creative, and therefore many people have to  work hard to have a creative way of thinking. From my point of view, this is inaccurate, because, while you should, of course, work hard to improve your skills, you are not able to develop that which you are not given. Everyone is gifted in various fields  and it depends on individuals whether they would like to use these qualities or not.
To summarize, there are lots of different opinions about creativity. But there is no doubt that creative ways of thinking, whether possessed from birth or not, change peoples' lives and their attitudes to it. 

