Louisa May Alcotts' book "Little women" tells us a story about four young girls, who face with many adversities such as poverty, diseases, war, but staying together they are going through hard times and after all they are awarded a happy ending. Created wold of girls life is extraordinary complex and realistic, girls are depicted very lively, with all their strengths and weaknesses: tall and skinny tomboy Jo, with a vivid imagination and a strong personality, elegant and graceful Meg, shy and timid Beth, who adores music and her doll collection and, finally, Amy, a little artist and «the most important person»(as she thinks). While reading the book we go together with the girls through all the difficulties and as I think, this story will not leave anyone indifferent. The book is sad and heartwarming at the same moment. The story begins at Christmas time and the girls give up their Christmas presents, wishing to surprise Mom with some gifts. Their father is in the war, they almost haven’t any means for living, each of them is snowed under work or studies, but they don’t lose heart and don’t despond. During the story they fall in love, they are grieving the loss of a loved one(Beths death), rejoice in the return of the father and so forth. I was surprised, how could it be, that these little women have so much to pass through, and none of them was in despair, courageously fighting with all the misery. It is interesting to note that the novel is considered autobiographical(or semi-autobiographical) and in Jos’ story we can see the writer. So, not only the mastery of the writer which is respected but also the striking and hard life story of Louisa May Alcott itself.
The larger theme of the story is about how it was difficult to survive for women, who do not have a lot of money in such difficult circumstances as war time. Three major themes of the book have been identified as "domesticity, work, and true love, all of them interdependent and each necessary to the achievement of its heroine's individual identity.»(Elbert, Sarah. A Hunger for Home: Louisa May Alcott's Place in American Culture Rutgers University Press: New Brunswick, 1987) 

In my point of view, this story has a life lesson for all of us. No matter how difficult life situation is, you should never forget about the family, about those who would be ready for everything for you and who would never let you down.
