Did you fuel your car this morning? Well, you won't be able to do that in just forty years time. Scientists say that the current level of oil consumption is so high, that this precious resource will end during the next half of the twenty first century. The question is - what can we do about it?
There is a pretty simple answer to this question - we can always stop using oil. But nowadays this resource is used in so many areas of our lives that it would be simply impossible to exist without it. We can say the same about a lot of other energy sources like coal. Other sources are just outright dangerous: just look at this year's catastrophe in Japan. So, it seems, the only valuable option here is to invent some new energy sources, which can last for a long time. As difficult as it may sound, many of them are actually around us. We just didn't understand their usefulness until the late half of the twentieth century. However, as usual, there are some drawbacks…
Let's take a look at the solar energy as an example. It's the easiest to actually get, but is it very efficient? Scientists have a mixed opinion on that. Of course, we can harvest it pretty much anywhere on the planet. But the amount of the actual energy it gives is not that big. The projects using solar energy were developing very fast, until it became clear that the Sun just can't give enough to even power a small automobile. Nowadays solar energy is mostly used in some little things that don't require a lot of power to work like calculators and so on.
Speaking of automobiles - the main trend in this area right now is the so-called hybrid power. It is not the alternative energy source by itself, but the concept is fascinating nevertheless. These cars actually have two engines: one running on petrol and the other one running on electricity. The petrol is not really used for actually powering the car: it powers the electric motor, which, in turn, gives torque to the wheels. It is a great concept, which can really help to reduce the oil consumption.
But how do we get electricity to power  this motors? It seems that the only breakthrough in that area is wind energy. Huge windmill-like fans constantly generate a hefty amount of power and they are pretty cheap to make. So cheap, in fact, that the Danish government had them installed on literally every empty field in their country. It is not a very productive source, but until scientists figure out something else, it can really help the humanity.
However, the most promising source of energy is neither wind energy, nor the solar. It's hydrogen. As many of us know, it's the most common element in the universe, so it can't really end. And the possibilities are endless here: we can use hydrogen in every major sphere of human life. It can act as a substitute for petrol in cars, be used in the production of electricity and completely replace oil. But, as it usually happens, there is a con. Scientists don't have a reliable method of actually extracting hydrogen from the world around us. They say the technology is not ready yet. 
And something like that can be basically said about all alternative energy sources. Some of them are not very efficient, the others are too expensive to use, and we can't even produce things like hydrogen in mass quantities. However, it does not mean that humanity should stop the research in this area. Practically every single one of major innovations in human history took it's time to take a real place in our lives. And alternative energy sources are not different.  

