The theory of componential analysis used to be a widely known method of analyzing the words in 1950-s, but nowadays this theory practically is of no interest for scientific world. And also there are some weighty arguments for not-forgetting this structural theoretic framework.
Componential analysis helps to understand all semantic meanings of any word. It decomposes the meaning of the words into the sense-components. These components are a set of semantic features which helps to represent the meanings of any lexeme. For instance, John Lyons presents some simple examples of decomposing the words. "Boy" and "girl" can be split into the sense-components "human", "non-adult" and "male" or "female". The meaning divides on two groups: one-place predicates and two-place predicates. One-place predicates are filled with the only one place of meaning, for instance, Lyons gives an example of word "John". It is a one-place predicate because it corresponds with only the one word "boy". Accordingly, two-place predicates are filled with more than one word, for instance, such words as "father" or "kill". They contains several meanings ("father" = PARENT & MALE). Also, fatherhood is a two-term relation in which it is possible to add variables: "father" = (x,y) PARENT & (x) MALE (x is a parent of y and x is male). Thus, every sense-component has to contain universal meaning(s) of the words and it is considered to be understandable in every language. 
This theory has several advantages. First of all, it is very convenient in defining all meanings of the word in any language (one-place predicates words), for instance, the words "kitten" or "sin". Secondly, for two-place predicates words componential analysis can describe all "picture" of meanings by showing the roles of agent and patient or correlation of these meanings with a help of formulas. And finally, the theory of componential analysis also helps to define the antonyms for every word which has it. 
On the other hand, the theory of componential analysis has some flaws. The most significant shortcoming of this theory is its imperfection with the complex-meanings words, for example, "apologize" or "pen". It is practically impossible to find comprehensible definition or antonyms for such words. Another problem of the theory is a correlation between natural languages. The definitions of the words in one language may not correspond with definitions in another language at all. Thus, sense-components are not exactly universal for all natural languages. 
In spite of all these disadvantages and shortcomings, the theory of componential analysis was reborn recently. With developing of computer linguistics this theory began to attract more and more linguists by its simplicity and clear structure. It effectively helps to create new language corpuses or writing some useful programs which are used to study natural languages.
From my point of view, any linguistic theory which can help in studying natural languages is incredibly important. Nowadays, in the century of technological progress, all sciences start intensively developed with a help of the computers, and linguistics is one of them. The theory of componential analysis might be improved and taken into account more attentively because it could bring a great number of benefits in studying natural languages in the future.