The customer insisted on his wish to complain about the parrot and showed the cage to the shop assistant. Mr Praline (it’s a customer’s name) told that he had purchased that parrot not an half hour ago from this boutique. The shopkeeper agreed and asked what was wrong with parrot. Mr Praline exclaimed that parrot was dead, but the seller asserted that it was just resting. Mr Praline repeated that he knew a dead parrot when he saw one, and he was looking at one right now. The both were gazing intently on the parrot’s corpse. The seller insisted that the parrot was resting, mr Praline parroted the last word back and the shopkeeper confirmed that the parrot was resting. Then he started compliment the Norwegian Blue parrots on their plumage, but the customers interrupted him saying that the plumage did not enter into it because the parrot was stone dead. The seller reiterated that it was resting. 
	Mr Praline made a pause, and then declared that if it was resting he would wake it up and started to yell.  He called parrot and promised it a nice fresh new cup of fish if it woke up. While he was screaming the shopkeeper thrusted the cage and contended that parrot had moved. Mr Praline contradicted that it had been the seller pushing the cage. He disavowed, Mr Praline insisted, then took the parrot of the cage, grabbed it and screamed it to wake up. It didn’t respond and mr Praline began to beat the parrot on the counter, then screamed again and beat anew. At last he threw the parrot on the floor. It was definitely dead. Mr Praline announced that was what he called a dead parrot. The shopkeeper didn’t surrender nevertheless: he claimed that parrot was stunned.  Mr Praline repeated it in wonder. The shop assistant told that mr Praline who had stunned parrot. Then he added that Norwegian Blues stunned easily. 
Mr Praline exclaimed that he had had enough of this. He repeated that the parrot was definitely deceased and reminded the shopkeeper that when he had bought it half an hour ago, the seller assured him that it was total lack of movement was due to it being tired and shagged out after a long squawk. The seller explained that the parrot was pining for the fjords. Mr Praline repeated this nonsense indignantly and asked why the parrot had fallen flat on its back the minute he had got it home. The shopkeeper answered with alacrity that the Norwegian Blue preferred keeping on its back and repeated his remark about beautiful plumage of these birds. The customer had his own way, he said that he had examinated the parrot and had discovered that the only reason that it'd been sitting its the perch in the first place was that it'd been nailed there. The seller didn’t become confused and asserted that it was reasonable that it had been nailed there because if he hadn't nailed it there, it would have muscled up to the bars and "boom". Mr Praline picked the bird up, demonstrated it to the shopkeeper and shrieked that this parrot wouldn't 'boom' if he put 4,000 volts through it as it' was bleeding demised.  The shopkeeper argued that the parrot was pining. Now the customers definitely lost the patience. He moaned that the parrot was not pining, he exclaimed that it was passed on, that this parrot was no more, it had ceased to be, that it was expired and gone to see its maker, that this was a late parrot, that it was a stiff, bereft of life. He declaimed that it rested in peace, that if the seller hadn't nailed it to the perch, it'd be pushing up the daisies, that it was run down the curtain and joined the choir invisible. Finally Mr Praline lifted the parrot and declared that that was an ex-parrot.  
The shopkeeper pronounced that he better would replace the parrot and he was pretending to look for it. The shop assistant returned and told mr Praline that they were right out of parrots and proposed a slug instead. Mr Praline asked whether it told, the other answered that it didn’t. The customer observed that it was scarcely a replacement then. Suddenly the seller confessed that he didn't want to work in a pet shop, he wanted to be a lumberjack. Mr Praline noticed with astonishment that it seemed to him irrelevant, but the seller putted his coat off and howled gaily that he would be lumberjack leaping from tree-to-tree as he looked down the mighty rivers of British Columbia.
