Do we need "creativity"?
It's often told that creativity is the key to success. If you have a skill like that you will definitely get a prestigious profession and achieve all the goals. Undoubtedly, creativity is like a weighty bonus in  variety kinds of activities. It doesn't matter what your job is, because in different walks of life, from cooking to working in oil industry, people do need it. But is creativity so indispensible? Can we replace it with other mental faculties?
On the one hand, it sounds impossible. Firstly, when you have an inborn sense of creativity, all the work runs better than  without feeling like that . This is because in a variety of inventive activities it's unacceptable to apply constantly the same strategic model. If you did so, your work would look like a stereotyped pattern. 
Secondly, in production area it's always important to reinvent in order to attract consumer's attention. Each of the goods should be different. Each of them ought to have its own distinguishing feature. For instance,  the Russian media project "Comedy Club". From time to time they open new TV programs with a purpose of keeping the number of viewers. Everyone knows that if the new TV-show is announced by CC production, it would obviously be full of fun and biting irony which is loved by millions of residents. Moreover, in spite of the same cast of the actors, TV-shows are always at the top of popularity because of their dissimilarity dissimilarity. This means that every time creators should provide new materials which have to be  unlike . So, it looks quite impossible to produce diverse goods without any creative sense.
On the other hand, if we don't have a skill of being creative, so what? It can be well replaced with other types of mental abilities, or we can just do without it. By other abilities I mean using such things as analytical thinking, being  good leader and having organizational abilities. Besides, creativity cannot exist on its own. Anyway, it should be supported by other faculties.
If you are creative enough and don't know how to deal with other sides of life (economical, social, etc.), it would be too hard to promote your idea. As an example, let's take a teenager who has offered people to use bicycles instead of cars. He/she can only offer his idea because he/she has never faced a marketing strategy  ( to make a proper advertisement),  sociology ( to estimate who and how much will change their seats  ), (they change their seats in the car for the seat on the bicycle) and so on. Finally, the idea may be lost forever.
In the end, creativity is a unique mental sense which may be compensated by other developed abilities but, in this case, it wouldn't be creativity in its pure meaning. The extent of using this sense depends on the sphere you work in, aims and goals you set for yourself. But if a person doesn't have any potentially creative thinking, he/she can always employ someone who does. We know many structures like that, for instance, Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak. They made together a powerful corporation which sells electronics and software for it. Wozniak was the technical expert of the company, so he led a strategic system of computer production. At the same time Jobs worked out a designing line. 
Personally I think that creativity isn't an  essential skill but it may be pretty useful in everyday life.


