Friendship and close relationship in business is one of corner stones of human beings. People from old days discussed and created postulates about this social event, and we have a lot if facts in literature, in philosophy, history, in folklore about it. 
From one side these facts provide good attitude to friendship and closeness in business activity. For example family professional continuity, when children continue professional business of their parents and work together with them. It means people need to be united with some identical wishes and be a serried unit in order to achieve success. We can also remember historic events of Russian and Ukrainian rebel forces leaded by Stephan Razin, Emelyan Pugachev or literal character Taras Bulba. All of them united friends and created solid military groups, base on honest relationship and trusty friendship. Even today, when children just start to learn social life in kindergarten, in school, they start to unite groups, base on friendship and able to do something together. That's the germ of future business fruitful partnership. You can say, that business relationship is framed by rules, That's it. We can also find it in friendship, when each part accepts and enjoys it's position and exists in scope of this acceptance. We can continue with example of family. From the beginning, two persons like each other, become friends, fall in love and decide to live together. They also have short-term "business plan" just live together in love and enjoy it, and long-term "business plan" - to be together for a long time, have children and some material benefits. Family is also some kind of business unit with its internal rules and habits. And for sure, no one solid and strong family can survive for a long time without maintenance of these internal rules. I believe nobody would object to that husband and wife are to be at least friends.
From another side, there are so many assertions that friendship and business cannot be united. A have a lot of friend who stopped mutual business with friends. The reason was only one - "He (She) was my best friend, I trusted him (her) as to myself, and I'm betrayed". Mutual cooperation ruined or terminated and best friend become bitterest enemies. Proverb "money combined - friendship is apart" illustrates negative attention to friendship in business. But I think, that is not true, as people just again break internal rules, private internal space. To be friends doesn't mean having right to consider friend as an ownership. Rules can be discussed, changed or reapproved, that bring healthy and open atmosphere in business and relationship, as well as success to business activity and approach friendship in deepest way.
