The growth of online shopping has greatly improved life for the consumer.

     With the growth of the internet more and more people tend to buy things online nowadays. Instead of going to the local shopping center they choose to stay at home and do their shopping over the World Wide Web. But has this opportunity really made people’s life easier? 
     At first glance, being able to buy certain things online seems really appealing.
     First and most importantly online shopping helps consumers to save a lot of time. People do not even have to leave their houses to buy the things they need anymore, everything is just one click away whether it is food, clothes or anything else. In addition, it is usually much cheaper to do your shopping online, which makes a lot of things more affordable and also helps people to save their money. Last but not least, online shopping offers consumers a wider range of products like rare clothing sizes or some kinds of exotic food. 
      On the other hand, however, shopping online has many disadvantages too. One downside is that people are at higher risk of fraud doing their shopping over the Internet as they often pay in advance using their credit cards. It is quiet common that consumers pay for the things they want and do not get what they were supposed to afterwards. Another drawback is that the price given on the internet can be really deceiving since it often does not include shipping costs, taxes or some other additional fees which sometimes makes people spend more than they expected. Finally, in order to get what people order they are required to provide personal information which subsequently results in receiving a lot of spam and calls offering the things they would potentially like to buy. Sometimes it can be extremely irritating. 
       In conclusion, although online shopping might threaten people’s privacy, it can be easily avoided if we fill out all the forms carefully and use the online stores we can trust. So, when it is done online shopping becomes a huge contributor in saving our money and free time.














































