One of the most frequent difficulties one can experience while learning a foreign language is the problem of homonymy and polysemy speakers deal with in everyday speech. Moreover, even native speakers may find difficult to distinguish polysemic cases from homonymic. Although the problem has been covered by many linguists, in the second chapter of his textbook "Homonymy and Polysemy: lexical and grammatical ambiguity" John Lyons tries to expand the traditional coverage of the issue.
The author starts with the developing of the description of homonymy: he proposes two different types of homonymy and provides three more conditions (to the necessary minimal one) that describe absolute and partial homonymy. He stated that absolute homonymy will satisfy all three conditions, while partial homonymy should satisfy at least one of them. After that, Lyons moves on to the lexical and grammatical ambiguity, and then he raises a problem of distinguishing homonymy from polysemy.  
While the first part of this chapter seems perfectly clear and reader-friendly, the second part leaves many questions and does not seem accurate and structured enough. If the author's aim was to solve the problem of distinguishing polysemy from homonymy, he failed: while he does not add anything new, besides the thoughts about the metaphorical extension, to the traditional criteria, he also shows us the difficulties one can experience applying them and so, makes his explanations more puzzled. To improve the part about polysemy the author may have had provided more examples illustrating his point of view and make it clearer. While trying to provide the fuller coverage of the issue, Lyons tends to simplify certain things: he often mentions but does not present to the reader the examples of the controversial cases. 
Despite all the criticism above, it is impossible to deny the importance of Lyons' input to this field of linguistics. His work was just a step forward, which inspired many scientists to continue the theoretic and research work in order to draw a clearer border between polysemy and homonymy. For example, the paper of Indian linguist Niladri Sekhar Dash "Polysemy and Homonymy: A Conceptual Labyrinth" (2010), which is far more structured and deep, was partially based on the Lyon's work along with many others.

In conclusion, it is important to say that, although nowadays some branches of science are highly-developed, the extension of people's knowledge has always started with small steps. Lyons' work, while it had some serious flaws, was a huge step in the development of linguistic science. 

References
Dash, Niladri Sekhar (2010) Polysemy and Homonymy: A Conceptual Labyrinth. Presented in Workshop on IndoWordNet-2010, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, 8th December 2010
