Introduction to the course project 'Database of Russian synonyms'
One of the goals of lexicography is to create and develop synonymic dictionaries. Several dictionaries of Russian synonyms are known. However, not all of them give the necessary information about differences between synonyms. For instance, two synonymic dictionaries of Abramov and Alexandrova have only synonymic rows with no comments about their semantic and collocational differences. Yevgenyeva's dictionary of Russian synonyms and New Explanatory Synonymic Dictionary [NESD] are opposed to them. Yevgenyeva's dictionary was the first attempt to create a dictionary of Russian synonyms with brief description of a synonymic entry. The description includes the common meaning, the semantic and collocational difference between synonyms and examples. However, its main disadvantage is that it was published in 1970, while the Russian language has been changing. As a contrast to Yevgenyeva's dictionary, NESD has too detailed description with semantic, pragmatic, communicative and other similarities and distinctions between synonyms. Moreover, due to the fact of long synonymic entries it has only several hundreds of entries while the dictionary standard is at least 3000 entries. This situation has motivated us to create a database of Russian synonyms. We reject the dictionary form because of its limitedness and not effective search ability. This database will contain general semantic and collocational information that would be enough for understanding the differences between synonyms. We also hope that this database might be a valuable tool for future linguists and other users, especially learners of the Russian language.
While the long-term goal of this project is to create a database of Russian synonyms containing about 3000 entries, we specialize the goal of our course project on developing a pilot-version of the database with 70 entries. Every member of the project made 9 or 10 synonymic entries, the quantity depends on the length of an entry. We also develop a metalanguage of description and create a template for the lexicographical description. The template is the same for different classes of words. It contains common meaning, differences in meaning, common collocation and collocational differences, government pattern and examples. We also *develop* an electronic format for the future database. My contribution to the project was creating a pattern for nouns which mean the arts (architecture), people whose occupation connects with the arts (actor, architector) and adjectives with the meaning of financial sufficiency or insufficiency (poor). The way, how I analyzed these words, would help future colleagues to analyze words of similar synonymic entries.
