What did being a Soviet citizen mean?
The Russian have nostalgia for Soviet life, for stability, confidence, glory for the country, friendship with other Soviet Nations. That is not about ideology, it is about everyday life. Nowadays we have some likeness quizzes, like "How Soviet are you?" As result of the quiz a lot of people are Soviet.
My parents were born and lived in the Soviet Union. When the Soviet Union collapsed my father retired, because of the age (he was in Soviet Army). My mother continued to work as a teacher, and I was in the tenth form. It was serious changes in everyday life and in economy. Market relations changed the life of Russian citizens. I had no plans for my higher grade, but I wished to be an engineer. At that period of time everybody realized that it is not popular to be an engineer and I chose the Volga Region Academy of Civil Service. I have never regard about that.
Scholarships in Soviet Union thought about their future and planed it. Somebody wanted to build buildings, houses, to work on computers, to be an engineer, to teach pupil, to be a doctor. It was one of the best things, because scholarships prepaid for the adult life, thought about future and were going to live in the future. There was a long list of professions. And they did it. They became teaches, engineers, doctors etc. After graduated the young people had guaranteed job places. They were confident in their future. They came to different Republics of the Soviet Union and perceived other nations as friends without any hatred. There were some controversial issues with Western Ukraine and Baltic Republics people and Russians in relations, but it wasn't comprehensive. After some working years young people could expect to receive a flat.
After Soviet Union collapsed everything changed. In post Soviet era young people dream of been bankers, not space flayers. Young people have no guaranteed jobs, they are not confident in the future. They need to find a job without a long list of preferences.
Nowadays only a short part of graduated people are willing to work as their profession is. The person who has a diploma as a child doctor is working as an accountant, the person who has a diploma as an engineer is working as a designer etc. That means that scholarships have no plans for future and come to the institute without any reasons, just to have a diploma. That means that we have a short list of hire educated specialists in all industries. It is not good for the economy and for the hole society - everybody has unrealized dreams and are not sure that they have the right place to work. That is a result of the short list of mistakes in economy, finance system, in all industries where must work experienced people with special education.
