If you read “The boy in the striped pajamas” by John Boyne you will go on a memorable journey with a nine-year-old boy named Bruno.  
The book describes us a powerful story which is told through the eyes of a young boy Bruno who had to leave his lovely house in Berlin, his grandparents and friends because of his father who had received a promotion. So Bruno and his family moved to a new house far away called Out-With, where there was no one to play with and nothing to do. Bruno considered his twelve-year old sister Gretel to be “a hopeless case”, his mother didn`t entertain him and his father was always busy and didn`t pay enough attention to him. The only entertainment Bruno had was to look out of his window where he could see strange people in the striped pajamas behind the fence. 
Being an adventurous child, Bruno decided to explore the area near the fence (despite the fact that he was forbidden to walk there) and he met there Shmuel who was sitting on the ground on the other side of the fence. He wore the same striped pajamas that all the other people on that side of the fence wore and he didn`t have any shoes or socks. Bruno made friends with the new hero who turned out to have exactly the same birthday as him. One day Shmuel told Bruno that all people on his side of the fence were Jews and that the soldiers hated them, but Bruno could not understand this and was sure that his father wouldn't hate anyone. But the truth was that Bruno`s father was one day visited by The Führer and was the Commandant of 'Out-With' concentration camp.
I should note that friendship of two boys is really unusual because Shmuel become adult earlier than Bruno. The war made him understand the world and people around him better. Shmuel didn`t tell Bruno about the Nazism, his pane and difficulties in order not to make Bruno get into trouble, hate and despise people around him. 
When I was reading this book, I tried to imagine Germany at the times of the Second World War through the eyes of the boy from the ‘wealthy’ family who was unaware of the Holocaust and the war. Who didn`t know who the Führer was and also didn`t know who the Jewish people were. He only heard from his father that those, who wore the striped pajamas, were not people at all.  
The book “The boy in the striped pajamas” tells us about the true friendship in which ethnic nationality or skin color and financial position are unimportant. The more valuable things are honesty, sincerity, common interests and devotion. Bruno had proved his devotion and love to Shmuel when he decided to get on the other side of the fence to help Bruno find his father. He put on the striped pajamas in order not to be noticed by the soldiers. When he had gotten there he realized that he wanted to go home, but there was no way back. Unfortunately, boys didn`t succeed in finding Shmuel`s father, after that it started raining and the soldiers led all people in the striped pajamas to some chamber and suddenly Bruno saw chimneys. “What do you burn in those chimneys?” - asked Bruno and broke our hearts, because we understood what would happen with the boys afterwards. But Bruno couldn`t understand.       
By writing the book “The boy in the striped pajamas” John Boyne wanted to say us that one day everyone gets his just deserts. A person who causes emotional or mental pain to someone can finally lose the most important thing in his life. And exactly this happened to Bruno`s father, who divided people into normal ones and Jews, whom he didn`t consider people at all. 
John Boyne is an Irish author and his book is a bestseller and was also turned into a Miramax feature film worth seeing too. The idea of writing the book came to John Boyne as one single image of two boys sitting on either side of a fence and having conversation. These two boys had no business being there, but they were there. The novel is a novel of misunderstanding and misperceptions. “Fences like this exist all over the world. We hope you never have to reach such a fence”, – says John Boyne.
There are some other books and films that tell us about the Holocaust through the eyes of children. For example, “Life is beautiful” directed by Roberto Benigni or “The book thief” by Australian novelist Markus Zusak. But there is something gripping and thrilling in the “Boy in the striped pajamas” that makes me love it more than other books and films on this subject.  I`ve read this book in the couple of days. “The boy in the striped pajamas” is deeply affecting and beautiful written. It will take your breath away and you will barely be able to hold back the tears.   
