For my book review I chose Emily Brontë`s work “Wuthering Heights”. This book is not so famous as “Jane Eyre” by Emily`s sister, Charlotte Bronte, but it is worth it to read.
The charming atmosphere, English life and culture of the 19th century carry the reader into the walls of the two estates: Wuthering Heights and the Thrushcross Grange. In 1801, Mr Lockwood, a wealthy man from the south of England, rents in the north for peace and recuperation. But one day, after a visit his landlord, Mr Heathcliff, who lives in a remote moorland farmhouse, Wuthering Heights, the character falls ill. Spending time in enforced idleness during illness Lockwood asks the housekeeper, Nelly Dean, about the family at Wuthering Heights, and she tells him the tale.
In the center of the story is a truly romantic figure, a hero without a past, Heathcliff. We don`t know where and when the owner of Wuthering Heights, Mr. Earnshaw, found him. The whole story follows the life of Heathcliff, a mysterious gypsy-like person, from childhood (about seven years old) to his death in his late thirties. Heathcliff rises in his adopted family and then is reduced to the status of a servant, running away when the young woman he loves decides to marry another. He returns later, rich and educated, and sets about gaining his revenge on the two families that he believed ruined his life. This is a book about love, but strange love, crazy love. 
As for me, I really like this novel. Why I chose this book? I saw a lot of good reviews on it so I was intrigued. To my surprise, I read this book avidly and so fast (about 3 days), with a big interest because all that family dramas made me nervous. All events in this work made me worry about the characters. Thanks to the simple language and an amazing plot “Wuthering Heights” is very easy to read.
Thus, when we speak about the main meaning of the Emily Brontë`s book we talk about the amazing story of the strange love between two emotional people who are not to be together.
