  Blog – is the new type of writing. It is the new method for earning money and explaining your feeling for people. What the blog is? Why people write blogs? What for we need to know about blogs? For answering this question, you must know that the blogs are divided into 6 types. And depending on the type of blog you can find out the purpose of its creation.
Six types:
1.	Own blog
2.	Professional blog
3.	Brand blog
4.	News blog
5.	Unconventional blog
6.	Travel blog
  Also, blogs in different countries have different characteristics. U.S. and European blogs are journalistic or opinion-oriented. Jason Karlin is an associate professor of cultural history and gender studies at Tokyo University. He commented on this topic. “U.S. Blogs appear more journalistic and topical because political discourse within the United States has become increasingly more divisive over the last decade.” Karlin also said that blogs presented information and perspectives that were not usually available in the mainstream media in the United States.
   Another characteristic of Japanese blogs, according to Karlin, is to use many photos. He said the photos are “an extension of the diary-like desire to document everyday life”. They are also a product of the proliferation of cell phones equipped with cameras.
   But why is Japanese blogging culture so different from, say, that of the United States? Many experts believe the answer is deeply embedded in traditions that date back hundreds of years. I agree with them.
   And I want to write you about U.K. good blog. It is travel blog. It is name “Lady in London”. Interface of this blog have beautiful style in gentle pink and green colors. I think this blog only for women. Elegant letters of tittle and all pages with colorful pictures from different countries, small paragraphs about traveling and beautiful places for walking and relax, tittles of this paragraphs like ”Lady Commemorates Poppy Day”, “ Lady Spends a Day in Dublin” – it is made me think that this blog is interesting only for women. This blog include in “Travel Blogs UK Top 10”. 
  I liked last article of this blog, “Lady’s Guide to Christmas Events in London”. When you read it and look at pictures of winter London you feel Christmas’ mood of this capital. 
“November 20, 2014 by A Lady in London
Winter is not my favorite time of year. As a Californian, I grew up with “winter lite”, a season where scarves were fashion statements and boots were worn with bare legs and miniskirts. But now that I face the annual reality of cold, dark London winters, I have to find ways to cope. As such, I’ve put together a little survival guide for the run-up to Christmas, and today I bring you A Lady in London’s guide to Christmas events in London.
Christmas Lights in London
There’s nothing like bright lights to trick us into forgetting that London gets dark at 3pm in the winter. The famous lights on Oxford Street and Regent Street have been lit, but if you want to be there for one of the city’s many switching on celebrations, head to Hampstead High Street on November 23rd from 12 to 4:45pm, where there will be a Christmas festival and surprise celebrity to turn on the neighborhood’s annual Christmas lights
Christmas Markets
London’s Christmas markets get bigger and better every year, particularly those in Hyde Park and on the South Bank. Hyde Park’s Winter Wonderland opens tomorrow, offering visitors everything from food and gift stalls to carnival rides and ice skating.

The Southbank Centre’s Winter Festival is already in full-swing, with Christmas market chalets, festive mulled wine, and lots of concerts and exhibitions to enjoy. I went down last weekend with friends and loved the cozy winter bars and restaurants…”
  I like this blog. It is about more 100 countries. She said “I have visited 100 countries and passionate about travel and food.” 
