«The sign of the four» by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
Books about Sherlock Holmes have been ones of my favorite since I first saw this character in the movie with the same title by Guy Ritchie. But this review is not about the film, it is about the book "The sign of the four". This is a detective novel and a crime fiction by Scottish physician and writer Conan Doyle. 
The story is about famous consulting detective Sherlock Holmes and his ally - Doctor Watson. A young lady Mary Morstan comes to the Baker street for help; she has a really interesting case, so Holmes and Watson go with her to shed light on her matter, but discover the murder and everything becomes darker. Sherlock quickly finds evidences and makes a theory based on the facts, simultaneously explaining the gist of deduction method. Some moments of the book are really interesting because of scientific explanations, description the approach of the great detective, following his thoughts and understanding the essence of the crime. 
Nature of the characters is well developed; they are realistic and believable, from the main persons to insignificant ones, like policemen and housekeeper. All of them are true to their traits and don’t undergo changes, especially Mr. Holmes. The structure of the plot is very unusual: it has introduction, climax and conclusion and after all that – the second introduction – suspect’s story about his life, complication of the story and reasons that led to those events. 
The book is written complex, intelligent language with a lot of terms and specifications. There are many different old style words to express emotions, little bit of sarcasm, and the whole story is serious and little scary. Author use some phrases on different languages, like French and Latin. 
The setting also has value. The first part of the story takes place in England, London, and the second part – in India, Agra. This place has influence on the malefactor – for example, he lost his leg and found an unusual exotic ally there.
I think that this book is worth reading to adults and teenagers with the good knowledge of language and education. It is very exciting and clever.
