Does the language we speak influence the way we think? This question was taken up in the experiment conducted by Lera Boroditsky, an American psycholinguist. 
English and Indonesian speakers were shown two pictures that demonstrate the same actor performing the same action in two different tenses and a third picture of a different actor performing the same action in one of the two tenses that were shown. People were asked to rate the similarity of these three pictures. Indonesians choose the first two pictures depicting the same man, while English speakers rated same-tense pairs similar. Consequently, English and Indonesian speakers were considered to focus on different aspects of action in making their decisions. English-speaking people seemed to concentrate on tense in assessing activity in the same tense and performed by different persons to be more similar than activity performed in different tenses and performed by the same person. The Indonesians, on the contrary, tended to ignore similarity of tense and rather focus on the similarity of actor.
Actually, it is known that, unlike English, Indonesian verb doesn’t include tense attribute. Thus, Indonesian speakers don’t have to grammatically indicate whether an action has already occurred, is happening now or will happen in the future. In English, verb forms are typically used to signal the time when an action or event occurs or a state holds. It is probable that the need to include temporal information in their speech affects the items English speakers would rather note in such tests.
Obviously, language can alter the way we see, interpret and engage with the world. For instance, there was another experiment on this issue conducted by Roman Jakobson a long time ago. He asked students to personify different days of the week. It is well established that different days of the week have different grammatical genders in Russian, therefore he told people to act like Monday or to act like Wednesday. Jakobson found out that Russian speakers would act like a man if they were impersonating like Monday, and they would act like a woman if they were impersonating like Wednesday. This happens due to the fact that Monday is grammatically masculine and Wednesday is grammatically feminine.
All in all, it is clear from the conducted experiments and other demonstrations that language we speak affects not only the way we describe the world, but also the way we experience it. In my opinion, this is an important direction for the research on language, as societies become global thus creating a need for a clear communication across languages and cultures. With a better understanding of how language and thought interact to influence the way we think about the world, we may improve our awareness of cross-cultural phenomena.
