In the Stephen Fry's radio show "Fry's English Delight - He Said, She Said" about gender and language, the equality of genders in language is one of the discussed aspects. The number of arguments is given to support the idea that equal rights are vital, but they should be achieved in a reasonable way.
Stephen Fry starts his program with the list of gender "feigned uncertainty" neologisms. In order to bring the problems that this situation with gender in language causes into light, he names equivalents for gender marked words, e.g. "guys and guyeses" or "lads and ladettes". This fragment raises the problem that will be discussed further. The following extract from the Ronny Barker's show demonstrate, that in some words, changing the component "man" to "person" will lead to another interpretation or even meaninglessness of word or expression. For example, he laughs at words "chairperson", "personhole" and expression "person to person".
Therefore, these analogues should be chosen more accurately. They can bring new sense in the word meaning or even destroy it completely. For instance, there are a number of sex-marked words in Russian that obtain an additional shade of meaning by performing such kind of operation. Words "врачиха" (the feminine suffix -их-) and "секретарша" (the feminine suffix -ш-) compared to "врач" and "секретарь" are stylistically marked. Moreover, single-rooted words "машинист" and "машинистка" have absolutely different sense. At the same time, some of these changes are becoming normal with the time and do not seem weird or strange anymore. Exactly this happened to the word "chairperson".
On the other hand, we should consider that not all the languages require such equality. From my perspective, there is no necessity to change this type of lexis in Russian language and women's feelings are not hurt when someone calls them "адвокат" or "учитель". Moreover, I think, there may be a tendency to call them with the "male" terms, e.g. "продавец". 
To sum up, in order to support equal rights of sexes in language, gender marked on unmarked terms should be used or invented carefully, since , first, it influence word semantics, and second, its necessity may differ between the cultures.
