The first chart demonstrates that the total amount of waste has increased from 800 thousand tones to one million in a four-year period. Thelowest rate was in the year 2009: according to the chart, it was only 700 thousand tones, which is less for 100 thousand tones than the rate ofthe previous year. However, next year the rate reached its peak - it was 1 200 thousand tones. Thereby, the rate which was reached by the nextyear, namely one million tones, could be considered as a success.This data should be compared with the amount of investment which is made to dispose the waste. It is highly predictable that these rates shouldvary inversely: the more amount of money is invested in reducing the waste, the less is the waste. However, the observed situation is not likethat. The rates of investment go up together with the rates of waste. The rates of investment has increased from one million euro to 2,5 millionduring these four years. It has to be noted, however, that the amount of investment remains at the same level (1,5 million euro) in 2009 and2010, which caused a dramatic rise of the amount of waste. In other words, the chart shows that the amount of money invested should be increasedpermanently in order to escape the abrupt changes in the environment.Concerning the level of public discontent, it is going up permanently during all the four years with no relation to the rate leaps which werediscussed above. Nevertheless, the speed of the growth is different. From 2008 till 2009 the rate increased for five thousand of complaints:from 35 thousand to 40 thousand. But by the year 2010 the increase of complaints was more crucial: the rate has grown for 10 thousand (from 40thousand to 50 thousand). Nonetheless the amount of waste has dropped by the year 2011, the amount of complaints have not decreased: this ratehas reached 60 thousand.Thus, these charts demonstrate a correlation between the amount of money that are invested in saving the nature and the amount of waste. On thecontrary, no correlation between the level of real waste and the level of public discontent could be observed.