Homonymy and Polysemy According to John Lyons.
The difference between homonymy and polysemy is an arguable topic among linguists. The notion of homonymy has been a part of semantic studies for a significant period of time, yet the attempts to predict which types of homonymy can possibly result into ambiguity and which cannot, failed. Another question causing numerous debates is the definition of polysemy: it is frequently difficult to define whether we have two (or more) homonymous lexemes or one with several meanings. In his well-known textbook Linguistic Semantics: An Introduction John Lyons attempts to specify both definitions.
In chapter Homonymy and Polysemy: Lexical and Grammatical Ambiguity the author identifies the main issues concerning the difference between homonymy and polysemy. To begin with, he sets the scene with a reference to Chapter 1, where homonymy was illustrated by means of traditional examples. He continues with giving a more precise definition of homonymy, dividing it into absolute and partial. He induces an accent on importance of grammatical equivalence which is a sufficient condition of homonymy but not an essential one. To illustrate the importance of grammatical form in homonyms, Lyons provides examples with the word found which may be a form of find or found depending on the context or in some cases both. He also mentions the cases of homonymy where citation forms or underlying base-forms are identical. After that, Lyons turns to polysemy and tries to define it as precisely as possible. He provides several examples that do not correspond to his definition but are examples of polysemy. Finally, he concludes that etymology supports the native speaker's intuition.
At first, the chapter seems detailed and convincing, but after a proper examination some flaws are seen clearly. One of the main problems is a significant number of linguistic terms which make the text inaccessible for people who are far from science. However, this disadvantage can be discharged with the fact that it is a piece from a textbook for linguists. Besides, the idea about etymology supporting intuition, which Lyons expressed in the last paragraph, is easy to call in question. The problem is that it is not always clear whether the etymology of words always supports the polysemy. For example, the word pupil has two meanings: a student of a primary school and a hole in the middle of the eye which perceives the light. The word in its first meaning descends from the Latin word pupillus (a boy), the second one comes from Latin pupilla (a girl, named so because of a small reflection seen in the eye), thus, both words come from the same root. However, these words came to English from Latin through different languages, which explains the ambiguity. Therefore, the idea of connection between etymology and homonymy/polysemy needs to be developed more properly.
At the first glance, the chapter looks sufficient but several disadvantages make it unconvincing. Besides, the formal language of writing makes the text illegible for non-linguists. If the author had been given more stylistic freedom and had developed some ideas more thoroughly, the text would be more accessible, interesting and sufficient.


