The question of attitude towards animals is very arguable nowadays. People cannot determine to what extent animals should be given rights and  towhat extent they can be used for benefit. Some of them protect animals and want to give them  rights  compatible  with  human  ones,  the  othersconsider animals to be the property of the humanity and thus to be used for peoples' good. And it's really difficult to say who is right.Lots of people see animals just as a tool for benefit and think they can use them however they want. They hold  to  the  viewpoint  that  animalshave no intellect and therefore they don't have rights. But here comes a question: to what extent should we use animals? Can we  run  experimentson them and test new drugs? Or should we limit ourselves with killing animals for getting food and other resources?There is also a large group of people who want to stop cruelty towards animals and even give hem rights. They think animals can feel the same  aswe do and demand to make animals if not equal to people then at least a bit closer to them. And here the same question appears: to  what  extent?Should we limit ourselves with using animals for food and resources only or should we even refuse to consume them? And if we  give  them  rights,should we give them the duties (which they will hardly fulfill)? And another question is whether we should give rights  to  all  the  animals  oronly to the chosen ones, as many people adore, for example, cats and have no pity at all for, say, rats. However, rats  are  worshiped  in  Indiaand people are afraid even to kill them accidentally. So, the attitude in different nations towards different animals and the way  of  their  usevaries and it's hard to determine the only morals.As for me, I am really confused. On the one hand I realize that animals can feel pain and suffer just like we  do.  But  on  the  other  hand,  Iunderstand that their use is very beneficial for people's good and refusing from using them entail great losses. Therefore, this  question  staysopen not for me only, but for the whole humanity as well.