Choosing a title can be easy for some books, a given the content, but for others it poses one of the most perplex challenges. In all but name the unique title is particularly essential since first impression incisively lays in the readers’ minds. Apparently, the title needs to be relevant to the story, moreover, short ones appear to win quite a bit. The writer has to make sure to have the title concise so as not to lose face in the eyes of a potential reader. Given the John Grisham’s example, it becomes apparent how masterfully the author picks a title – whether it’s ‘The Associate’, ‘The Broker’, ‘The Testament’, ‘The Pelican Brief’, ‘The Rainmaker’, etc. – it’s always precise, catchy and explicit. 

If we look more closely at one of the given book titles, we’ll discover the inner agenda the writer held when working on the book. ‘Rainmaker’ is interpreted as ‘one who is known for achieving excellent results in a profession or field, such as business or politics’ or ‘a rainmaker is any person who brings clients, money, or respect to an organization’. This gives enough food for thought. Very soon the reader will come to realize what excellent results or profit this rainmaker brings. Business experts construe the rainmaker as ‘anyone who consistently finds innovative ways to present an idea’. To put it simply, a rainmaker is a difference-maker. Thence, it must be the protagonist who will be limned so brilliantly and make all the difference.  Another point to consider is that the term "rainmaker" is traditionally applied to the legal profession. Thus, the reader is highly likely to be dealing with a law-driven novel. As we see, John Grisham made an utterly glorious attainment in conveying the right and exceptionally accurate idea in just one word in a title.

Upon examining the title and the front cover for the purpose of personal interest, potential readers need to learn the subject matter. The title is indubitably intertwined with ins and outs of the book – inasmuch as this book is a legal novel, there must be other hints to expose the legal theme. Indeed, publishers’ editions offer umpteen ways of exhibiting the topic either with an empty court room picture or a shadowy image of a gavel on the judge’s table. Needless to say, the book cover is the second most crucial mediator and the first visual encounter between the author and the reader. Withal, it is crucial to convey the necessary concept to the audience with the help of visual reproduction of the idea, in which John Grisham looks most compelling. Grisham’s mastermind is lauded numerous times on the book cover. Los Angeles Times rightfully allege the complex plotting to be Grisham’s major accomplishment – the comment made by the newspaper to instance the writer’s skilled work. 

This manifests that critics and innumerate editions are honoured to read Grisham’s work and to leave a fine imprint on his rich wondrous literary life path. ‘The Rainmaker’ is rich in words of praise, it’s exalted and justifiably glorified – the tagline provided by Entertainment Weekly states ‘a taunt and terrific page-turner’. Such a toppingly and expressive feedback instantly lures the reader to plunge into the mighty narrative. For the aforementioned reasons, this work can truly outshine the similar books we come across. All in all, not only does the inner plot endear the readers, but so also do the outer colours the book shines.
