“The Collector” written by John Fowles is a compelling thriller story, inhabited by unique characters, which have their own imperfections, quirks and vices. The title of the novel indicates that central is Frederick Clegg, around whom the main conflict revolves.

Frederick Clegg is a typical petty bourgeois, who has faced several hurdles in life. He is born into a humble background and when a child he becomes an orphan. Subsequently Clegg reverts to his aunt and uncle’s custody. He is close to uncle Dick, but when the protagonist is in his vulnerable years he experiences another grievous loss, his uncle’s demise. From that time on he is raised by aunt Annie who is very pushy towards Frederick and deprives him of any freedom. What is more, Clegg has never been the member of the community. He believes that he is treated as a social outcast, thus he lacks communicative skills and day-to-day interactions. I have a hunch that such a train of events in the protagonist’s life is ordinary, one of many, yet it is an irrefutable fact that it has left a huge imprint on Frederick’s psyche. His alienation encourages him to live in his own world he has once created.

From the very beginning of the novel I can hardly dub Frederick a villain, let alone a perfect one. However, throughout the novel the protagonist undergoes endless transformations, he evolves and grows. The reference point of such ‘a personal growth’ lies in his football pools prize. This factor has encouraged Clegg to bring about a dramatic increase in his social status. But this leap is only outward, in fact he remains a formidable example of a person from the lower middle-class world. Money corrupts him by giving him a false sense of power and makes his outlook more blurred and perverted. Clegg hatches his hideous plan, then kidnaps Miranda and keeps her captive. He turns from an inoffensive reserved person to a trespasser.

Clegg’s stroke of genius is to subdue Miranda to make her fall in love with him. He toys with the idea of stepping into family life with her, so his endeavor has been well-intentioned at first. But as the girl is reluctant to submit to him, the man goes belligerent and starts riding roughshod over his hostage. For instance, in the first couple of weeks of Miranda’s captivity Frederick meekly asks her permission to take several photograph of her. Later he takes snaps of her wearing only the underwear. Yet in another one of his tantrums he subdues her with a pad of chloroform and in such a ruthless manner he takes photos of her being naked. These scenes reveal that his aggression is gaining momentum and he is growing into a real rapist.

As the story develops, I start regarding the protagonist as a villain, because his plan is well-conceived. He has done a lot of preliminary work making the cellar escape-proof to kidnap the girl and has taken into account various subtle details. Moreover, he doesn’t intend to murder his victim, but strives only to hold Miranda captive in the cellar. This fact tortures the girl even more than if she was kidnapped by a murderer, because she suffers psychological pressure. 

Furthermore, Frederick Clegg is a real villain in this novel, because of his personal traits and outlook. He doesn’t have second thoughts about his actions and wrongdoings and never indulges in self-examination. He constantly tries to seek lame excuses to justify himself. What is more, he is unable to experience tender or warm feelings. His love to Miranda is self-deception, because he doesn’t know what real love is. 

To sum it up I would like to emphasize that Frederick Clegg from “The Collector” by John Fowles is a perfect villain as this personality is inherently immoral. He has taken the low road and is sure to continue following this track.
