Human being is the only kind of animal in the nature who can think, who is able to realize and understand everything properly, who has his own mentality and intelligence. And this is our main feature. Every time when making a decision, thinking something over, preparing for something we use our brain and knowledge and feelings and own conclusions to make everything right. Certainly, we may face to external or inner conflicts and which of them is worse is a big question. In this essay I’d like to focus on how people struggle different difficulties to come a decision and which kind of conflict they have. 

	First of all, to make everything clear, let me shed light on the definition of word ‘conflict’. In literature, this word signifies one of the most relevant elements that makes the plot more interesting, more sophisticated and makes us to be imbued by the events. In stories we can usually see one or two or even more conflicts still literature scientists prefer to highlight 4 main types: man opposites man, man opposites society, man opposites nature and finally man opposites themselves. The last type of conflict is quite common in English literature still it’s the most complicated and puzzled one that’s why we focus on it in detail. 

	All of the stories that I would like to describe and analyze have something in common and it’s a decision that they should make. There’s no other choice for them, protagonists cannot just leave it all and move on. They should make this decision that is actually a fatal one for them. In ‘Shooting Season’ by Rose Tremain the protagonists Anna and Marcus face each other and it seems like they both should make some kind of conclusion still only Anna does as she has an inner conflict with which she has to struggle. In ‘Groundlings’ by Jane Gardam the protagonist has a self-conflict and face to a situation when she has to choose to give up with the theatre and memories about Aggie Batt or not and many others. ‘On the Day that E.M. Forster Died’ is a typical story where the main character meets an inner conflict and cannot make a decision so she prefers to run away from it still it’s very challenging. Now let me dwell on these narratives. 

	‘Shooting Season’ is my favorite one actually. The narrative tells us a story of Marcus and Anna who are separated but there was crazy love between them with the bitter passion and painful consequences. Ann is a typical English woman probably brought up in well-educated middle-class family. She seems to be very kind, soft, pleasant woman but the main thing that this character is able to give her whole soul to love, to drawn in her feelings. It’s amazing to be such an open person. Still Marcus who was her husband is actually quite selfish, rude and sarcastic person. He is a cold one and he cannot love as deep as Ann can. Probably it was one of the reasons why they split up. In this story we have 3 types of conflict: Marcus vs. Marcus, Anna vs. Anna and Anna vs. Marcus. Marcus has an inner-conflict as he is just a confused man. He has lost everything: his wife, his children, Ann’s love and tenderness and it makes him quite sarcastic and cold person that triggers an inner conflict. Anna is still loving him and it’s difficult to leave him despite she understands that there’s no chance for their recovery. She regards him as a very close person still she feels some kind of wall between them and it provokes a self-conflict too. And as usual, ex-lovers have conflict between each other, as there’s always some kind of pain and bitterness. I’d like to focus on some stylistic devices from this story. The passage ‘Anna had been at the rented cottage for three weeks <…> But no, said Margaret, no emergency, only Marcus’ (pp. 161-162 Contemporary British Stories).  This passage is peppered with the stylistic device of alliteration, by the way. We can see a lot of sounds [s], [m] and [f]. These sounds are perfectly combining with the description of river. From my perspective, author used them to highlight the image of river and metaphorically show us that Ann’s life was like a river until the phone rang: she almost forgot him and her life is getting more and more constant and calmer as a river. Also the river is compared with her new novel that flows not so fast but quietly. Also these sounds betokened some kind of storm in her life that Marcus will bring. This passage let us see the inner conflict development and its strength getting greater and greater. This is about how this ‘emergency call’ from Marcus turned her life upside down again. The other passage concerns Marcus and shows us his selfishness. ‘I’ve cried for you, he wanted to tell her <…> Why was the silent making of your rugs so intimately connected to my perfect arrangement of words?’ This passage includes words that have never been said by Marcus. They were just the product of his thoughts. I-am-such-a-snob-that-I-will-never-tell-this-foolish-things words, exactly. This passage is a confession of Marcus’ broken heart or broken ego. Sentences are quite long that shows that he is very puzzled, complicated and confused. He has so many thoughts to think that they flow together in large sentences. Also this passage is peppered with rhetorical questions at the very end that shows his complications too and uncertainty. So at the very end of the story they don’t get any resolution. The story doesn’t have its certain closure. Still here we face two basket cases with inner conflicts that probably interfere with their decision-making. Still I have a hunch that Anna has chosen to let him go and to close her self-conflict. What about the title of this story, it’s very close to the Biblical idea that there’s a season for everything in life as for shooting. This shooting season the protagonist realizes that it’s time to forget and never look back. And also she realizes that there’s a season for love too and their love is gone now and cannot exist anymore.

	Another interesting story for the analysis is ‘Groundlings’. Aggie Batt is a real theatre-lover. All she has is a theatre, Shakespeare and groundlings. There’s nothing more to appreciate for her. And there’s also a middle-aged woman who loves theatre too. She’s from wealthy family, she has children and husband still they don’t understand her feelings about her main interest. And it provokes a self-conflict in her. She just doesn’t know if there’s something so expensive and beloved by her. She sees Aggie and compares her to herself. ‘Thinking of Shakespeare and Winter’s Tale I went round to our garden at the back to pick Aggie some flowers <…> She doesn’t understand’. This passage is absolutely about the inner conflict of the character. She decides to bring Aggie some flowers to make her smile at least a little bit and she is choosing them in the garden with some king of alarm or anxiety. She’s really worried about something. That is the conflict. We can see it because of her manner of choosing; she doesn’t know what exactly she wants. She brings Aggie flowers but it is too late: she is dead. And now the question for the protagonist: to forget it all including such visits to theatre or is there another variant? The author doesn’t show us her final decision so we have an open end so that we are able to think it all as we want.

	The last but not the least is ‘On the Day that E.M. Forster Died’. This story is about writing. It is quite complicated from my perspective still it represents us a confused woman who should choose between family and art. Actually I have a hunch that she is absolutely alone. Sure she has a family still does she feel love and enough tenderness? I think she doesn’t. So this circumstances makes her life grey and makes her feel depressed so she’s always searching for kind of soul mate. I don’t want to write about this narrative very much as I didn’t understand all the feelings of the characters and especially protagonist still the main point is obvious- she has an inner conflict because of lack of feelings and fresh emotions.

	Sometimes our lives reach a deadlock and we should do something with it. We may consult psychologists, may listen to our parents’ advice, may try to shift the blame on someone still we often forget that there is no other person who can make a right decision except us. Inner conflict is always kind of impetus for us. It will always tell you where you should go and what you should do. Follow your heart and live your life.
