The story-book “Contemporary British Stories” presents us a lot of tales about ordinary lives. Of course, there are some other topics, but this one is the main one. This subject is the foundation for many plots – at first sight it means nothing. We all live in insipid world and have the same life. But then, when we look more closely into our life-span, we can find that it is not so ordinary. I want to consider some examples of such incredibly simple discoveries in tales presented in this story-book. 

The story under the title “Mr. Tennyson” by William Trevor tells us about one man, who had, “romantically, a bad reputation” and the girl, who was his student and was in love with him. The author describes the situation very carefully and adequately. The main character, Robert Tennyson, was an English teacher and used to love Shakespeare. He had an ordinary family: a wife and four children. He might look as an ordinary person too, but the author told us that he had an amorous relationship with his recent student, Sarah Spence. Mr. Tennyson spent weekends away from home with her. Maybe, he even loved her. But he was not brave enough to stay with her. I suppose Robert was afraid of public's conviction or he didn’t want to hurt his family as well. Worse yet, he even hadn’t an opportunity to share his feelings with his family or his friends that is why he told about Sarah with girls from his school. 

 Many school-girls dreamed about him, they idealized him. One of these girls was Jenny. Jenny is one of the main characters of the story. We see events through her eyes. The author gave us a description of her looks and life as a whole. She had pale fair hair, the color ripened wheat; her eyes were large and of a faded blue. She was lanky, with legs which she considered to be too long. She lived with her family that wasn’t a big one: herself, her mother and father. Jenny often spoke with her mother. It seemed like she got on well with her family. But she had a secret that she couldn’t share with her mother: it was her feelings to Mr. Tennyson, her English teacher. Incrementally we found out that Jenny dreamed about him. For example, at night lying in her bed she imagined how they would spend time together and how Mr. Tennyson should be happy with her. It looks like she was naive, because she thought that her English teacher was unhappy because of his family. She even thought that he could become a great writer if he would start a new life without his family. 

Robert meant a lot for Jenny. She didn’t care about his age, his family and his relationships with other girls. She didn’t pay attention to boys from her school who felt in love with her. She only wanted to be with him. And in the end of the story when Mr. Tennyson asked her to stay for a minute and started to comment her essay Jenny decided to open her feelings to him. But Mr. Tennyson didn’t really care about it and he just wanted to share his own emotions with someone. At that moment Jenny realized that he loved only Sarah Spence and nobody else. 

At first sight “Mr. Tennyson” seemed to be an ordinary story about teenage love. But there is no ordinary thing in it. We found out that the teacher, who should set a good example for students, had an amorous relationship with one of his wards. Also the narrator let us know that her “ordinary” family might be not so perfect and thoughtful: mother didn’t even know about her daughter’s first love and father is insomuch not memorable character as readers forgot about him as soon as possible. Only tale itself seems ordinary: if we look through it, we find a lot of strange and not at all ordinary things. 

There is another tale, “Empire Building” by Deborah Moggach. Author gave us a story about the buildup of one man. In the beginning of the story-telling we saw some kind of poor man, but closer to the end he became the wealthy. It might be satisfactory, but in the begging Hamid (the main character) had a knit family as in the end he lost his son, who kept away from him. I suppose that exactly the result of Hamid’s work is the most non-ordinary thing in this story. He thought that he worked for his nearest and dearest’s happiness (and this result could become an ordinary reward for his pains), but then he found out that he only did worse – there were no warmth and care in his family no more. 
