Nowadays lots of people tend to fall victims to such a tendency as escapism. What is escapism and what does it mean for them to escape? 

Escapism is a way of refocusing one`s attention on pleasant or enjoyable things, as opposed to the hard realities of the daily routine. People try to escape reality, their families, their friends and their problems that exist in their lives. People are eager to find a new better and easier life, where everything is ordered like wanted it to.

There are several outstanding protagonists in the book that are the examples of the addiction to escapism and alternative reality games that are the key means to escape the real life.
One of such protagonists is Jenni Fortune. She is a young female and hails from humble background. For three years she has been working as a tube driver. The accident with a suicide that happened to her made Jenni be detached from people and confine herself to her cabin, her home and brother. She is a book freak and is hooked on playing Parallax, a very popular alternative-reality game in England. 
For Jenni Parallax is a way to create her own ideal life where she can be a person who she really is and stop being afraid of what other people would think about her behaviour, her views and her feelings. In this game she can also try on different lives and it is a means to make her dreams come true. Her job is as well a way to escape people because she is isolated while driving a train and nobody can see her emotions towards various situations. Her nearest and dearest believe that the only thing that she sees is soothing darkness, points, a slighter of crossing rails and signals that glowed like red coals. In fact she sees the miracles of London: the corbelled brickwork through which the tunnel had been cut and for her it is a connection with reality.

Another protagonist who could epitomize escapism is John Veals. He is a successful business man, a career-oriented person. His ultimate goal to raise funds and he is even obsessed with money. He is not much of a family member, he is more like a money freak and his family is suffering of his indifference as all days and nights he is overwhelmed by his job, phone calls, meetings and fund raising dinners with his partners. These business circles are a means to escape problems in his family life, to stay apart from his American wife and his teenage son. 

John Veals believes that there are enough crucial points that should be solved at his job and he is reluctant to be involved in anything else at home. That is why he preferred to be a business-confined person.

The whole book celebrates the stories of people who are illustrations to the phenomenon of escapism and how it can relate to our life. Protagonists try to be apart from their real lives to avoid being involved into contexts in which they don`t know what to do or what to say.

Definitely, living in a big city makes people stress-prone and depressed. They tend to abandon their problems and calm their nerves. I have a hunch that if we harmonize our personal interests with public ones, it will bring us back to the importance of being adaptable to the needs of the society.
