Jonathan Coe has written a perfect novel which is different from others in  its plot, intrigue and convincing narrative. This book fires your imagination and describes  the real day-to-day problems of  the society by capturing the atmosphere of the  20th century which makes its characters sharply drawn and utterly convincing. It is a dynamic story with a multi-layered plot and events in the life of the characters that will grab readers by the throat.

Actually, it is typical for a title to tell us who the novel is about but in this situation the title comes from Michael Owen, the protagonist  experience the plummeting misery in a childhood. This book is about Michael Owen , a singular, yet  not powerful individual and central are his weaknesses, imperfections, quirks and vices which humanize him. He is a novelist, his job makes his  lonely antisocial person who hovers like a spectre with a two days’ worth of stubble and the tawny hair that stands desperately in need of cutting and re-styling. Michael is prone to taking in an entire evening’s viewing the same episode from  What a Carve Up over and over again. It seems that every time he goes deep into his favorite fantasies which have become a real inducement for him in his childhood.  The first person narrative in this novel allows us to view Michael as narrator and it gives us the possibility to go deep into his thoughts and flesh out his concerns, his consciousness and his choice of life

On the one hand, Michael's life is excruciatingly tedious and I tend to believe that his personality is deteriorating.  It looks like he is caught in eternal loop. He waits at the same bus stop for the bus to arrive, goes to the same station and catches the same train and sees the same people.  Even his bins are overflowing with bottles, books are  jumbled into a tower and apartment is crying out for a good hoovering, so it gives a hint that he is suffering from his monotonous life. He fails to recognize people he encounters and the episode involving Fiona who  smiles at Michael, not fulsomely, just enough to offer a hint of nice, even teeth in hope he recognizes her proves this fact. When he wanted to mouth something to Fiona, he pours out a torrent of nonsense. Moreover, he keeps answering Do you think you could run that by me again?  and remains lost in his reverie if Fiona says something.

On the other hand, despite the fact that  Michael's behavior is not his winning feature, he remains an integral part of the plot . It can be attributed to the fact that he is a high-profiled writer of proven experience and ability whose main objective is to delve deep into the Winshaw’s early history in order to write a book ordered by Tabitha. She still reserves the sharpest edge on her animosity for Lawrence. In her opinion, the time is  ripe for the history of her glorious family to be laid before the world. 

The more he takes on the fearless expedition into the darkest corners and most secret recesses of the family history and exposes the details of their glittering careers, the more he realizes how wretched ,  lying, thieving and self-advancing are the Winshaws.  Eventually, he reveals the main problems of our society and concludes that the whole upper class is corrupted by oligarchy and power and. It is interested only in how to benefit from the lower classes, corner a lucrative portion of  their burgeoning business, neglecting the needs of other people. It seems that upper class regard people from a humble background as cogs in their machine and form bonds of hate between  lower and middle-income classes in order to make a profit out of their labor. Michael is not happy with the fact that someone is trying to define the fate of other people, so he concluded that the powers that be spoil everything with their vested interests and their influence and their privilege and their stranglehold on all the centers of power . That's why he doesn't  want his investigations are becoming ever more sporadic and desultory and one day they break off with the most tantalizing abruptness. I suppose that it must be first of all related to his personality and obstacles concerning his and Winshaw families but it is not a feasible excuse, in my opinion.

Finally, in this novel we expect to see characters we  have already encountered. For instance, and once again we meet Henry Winshaw, who tries to burn Michael's book, Mark Winshaw, a successful arms dealer, who goes taut with panic when Michael asks him if he has had any relations to arming the Saddam Hussein dictatorship. Frankly speaking, I haven't read the book completely but I really expect to see  the narrator's thoughts concerning mysterious events which have taken place at the publishing house and on Michael's way home in a taxi. Moreover, I believe that there will be an implacable opposition between Michael and the Winshaw family where Michael will be ready to support his point of view, complete his book and accept the challenge to test his patience and ingenuity. 
