Lily Waite evolves and grows throughout the novel. From a whippet-thin Yorkshire girl that always needs a steady hand beside her, who can’t cope with her own child, she becomes an independent woman. She shapes up, and is ready to face up to all the knocks and blows of her new life. 

Lily’s features are mirrored by nearly all of the peripheral characters presented in the book. The most formidable examples are members of her family. The novel begins with Matthew, who wants an aquarium with fish. Since they can’t afford it yet, the boy tries to substitute it with fish-cards. Though they are not real, they all have real names. It just about sums Lily up – her vehement desire for a beautiful life in a big London house, with a husband, settled happiness. She conjured it all up a long time ago, when her version of London was too fuzzy, and now she can’t have it, because she’s going through money like water and hardly getting by. So, she finds something instead: an empty flat and a husband of another woman. While Matthew collects fish-cards, which are useless, Lily collects lost things, makes a useless list that keeps up its own momentum day by day.

Lily can’t believe she’s lost everything – this is what she had been so afraid of all her life. To stay without a bean, like Bob and Brenda when they just got married. She had to start from scratch.  One night Lily hears Matthew saying in his sleep: ‘Not that, I need that!’ as though someone were trying to take a toy from him. This fear of losing is actually something that Lily feels. It comes from the time when Lily was a little girl, walking with Brenda and Bob and trying to keep a balloon tight in her hand. ‘Hold on tight, otherwise you’ll lose it’, Brenda tells her. Bob ties it to the pram: ‘There now. Safe now’. Although Lily can’t stand being steered through life by her parents, their safe lifestyle and their horror of anything not easily controlled, she wouldn’t mind having some things under her control now, such as her constant feeling giddy or Matthew’s behavior. 

It’s difficult for Lily to cope with her child, who always defies her and repeatedly ignores reprimands.  In fact, she doesn’t feel much more grown up than him and sometimes it scares her, when she knows that Matthew expects her to behave like an adult and she just feels feckless, wants to turn tail and run. Lily’s reaction to her son’s biting her is pretty much the same as Brenda’s reaction to the story with Lily’s boots – childish and ludicrous. She can never appease her son and make him respect her. 

 Lily had never imagined herself raising a boy. She had always wanted a pretty little silent girl, just like herself. She could be like Brenda – a good, caring mother for a perfect, always lost in books and never getting in troubles girl. She didn’t know it can be so hard. Although she always puts her child’s needs first, she’s afraid Matthew feels unwelcome, ‘the wrong child’, like she felt when she couldn’t fashion herself into her teachers’ image, trying to obey their contradictory decrees. She doesn’t want Matthew to feel the way she did. Neither does she want him to have a birthday party without his friends like she had, because of her mother’s agoraphobia. 

 The mother and the child have one more thing in common. ‘You know it’s wrong to bite, don’t you?’ – You know it’s wrong to steal, don’t you? They surely do. Lily knows it’s unsettling to steal the toy, she also knows she shouldn’t use someone else’s credit card, but she does it. Yet, she doesn’t expect a similar behavior from Matthew. 

As much as Lily tries not to copy her mother, she still does. Children are reflection of their parents and they are hardly able to do anything about it: this is the tenor of things. If Lily didn’t change her attitude and her lifestyle, she would probably be right about her raising a racist, a member of a gang. 
