People have always been paying attention to different things, items, places, recollections and even relationships, associating them with certain periods in their lives, both good and bad, people and moments. Thus, these very things are believed to be symbols of a person’s life. 

Chemistry is a story about a little boy who lives with his mother and grandfather and about the way his and his family’s lives changed when his mother started to have a relationship with a man called Ralph. I’d like to highlight that in the story words Mother and Grandfather are with capital letters. From my perspective, this fact should be given prominence as for the protagonist his family members may be considered as symbols of his «old» life, before the death of his father. It also shows that the main character treats his mother and grandfather with due respect. 

Basically, narrator’s grandfather couldn’t get accustomed to Ralph and didn’t approve of main character’s mother choice. Moreover, Ralph used to pounce on the grandfather which added to his state of loneliness. The grandfather started to spend more time in the shed and as the protagonist was quite curious, he wanted to know what his grandfather did there. Once the protagonist came to the shed and saw that his grandfather did experiments with various chemicals. The narrator concluded that his grandfather practiced chemistry for solace as it was the way he could distract from everyday routine and family issues. The protagonists felt safe in that shed. The words that grandfather said to his grandson, answering his question about what was he making, are rather significant: «Not making – changing. Chemistry is the science of change. You don’t make things in chemistry – you change them. Anything can change». 

After, the protagonist wanted to get a revenge on Ralph and throw grandfather’s acid in Ralph’s face. Later, narrator’s grandfather died and the official verdict was «suicide by swallowing prussic acid». Nevertheless, the protagonist argued it to be the real reason of his grandfather’s death.
My stance is that chemistry in this story is compared to life. As well as in chemistry, everything always changes in life. This story in particular is peppered with symbols, as for instance grandfather’s relationship with Ralph. It’s possible to say that they had «wrong chemistry». Also chemistry as grandfather’s hobby is a symbol of protagonist’s happy period of time when he felt safe and protected. Chemistry can as well be protagonist’s weapon of vengeance and the reason of his grandfather’s death. To my mind, the most relevant symbol in this story is chemistry as we can see it in any form throughout the narration. It signifies good and bad, life and death and happiness and sorrow at the same time.

The main symbol of the story Gifts are things that impressed the protagonist most. These were things that were rather significant for the main character. In spite of his life he had when he enroled at the university, I take it that the narrator was lost in life; he was in a constant search of something.  While reading, it’s possible to assume protagonist to be quite an insecure person.  However, when he got these so-called «gifts», he had whether good or bad experience. According to the protagonist, for him gifts were «naked photos, cold pizza, their girls, their breasts to see, even their grief». In the end of the story, the narrator concluded these things that came to him to be relevant to him and when he heard the news about Monsieur D’Amico’s death he managed to understand that these «gifts» mean something to him, I believe that he realized his importance and finally he felt empowered, happy and confident. Thus, «gifts» are believed to be main symbols that are to evolve the plot. 

The Language of Water tells a story about the man whose father was dead and his relationship with his father’s old friend, Garfield. Protagonist’s father was the only thing that connected him and his father’s friend. The narrator was embarrassed when communicating with Garfield however then he started to enjoy fishing with him. Flashbacks as well as «Innocent Eye» should be given prominence. These stylistic devices were supposed to reveal protagonist’s recollections of childhood and to show past event genuinely and vividly. Also alliteration of the sound «s» in the episode when young protagonist witnessed Garfield killing a pigeon helps us to reveal that the narrator was scared, terrified and frightened.
The water is considered to be the key symbol of the whole story as protagonist and Garfield always interact with water, for instance, going fishing. Also water reflects conditions and moods of the characters. Moreover, dialogue between the protagonist and Garfield can be connected to life: 
«There’s a fish in for us», - I said.  «Don’t worry».
«It looks a bit flat to me» - Garfield said».

	Thus, analysing this very dialogue, it’s possible to suggest that the protagonist was somehow saying that life and happiness is yet to come and life should be enjoyed, while Garfield supposedly said that he lost interest for life and that it seemed dull and uninteresting to him.
	The water in this story symbolizes life and the flow of life in particular. Sometimes life is boring and nothing happens, so the water is flat and sometimes life is full of events and there are waves in the river. Therefore, the ultimate symbol of the story is water.

	To wrap everything up, I’d like to say that I find the fact that the symbols in all of the stories are in the titles rather crucial as it may help potential readers to suggest what these stories might be about. In the big perspective, certain symbols in the stories not only help the characters develop, still help the plot evolve.
