The society is a construction of the social divisions. The society may be formed either according to a class division. These divisions may penetrate each other but the frames are outlined properly. The difference between the caste division and the class one is that the first presupposes the hereditary affiliation with this or that that social group. 

John Grisham in his brilliant book “The Rainmaker” raised the problem of the сlass divide in America. The one idea of the book is to reveal another, dark side of American life. He narrates the lives of a simple man - Rudy Baylor's. There is some kind of a blame of society in his book. The problem exists, no doubt. The root of the problem is could this problem be resolved by the equalization of all and everything?

In layman's terms a "rainmaker" is a legal case that brings in a huge sum of money for the lawyer and the lawyer's client. John Grisham uses this term in The Rainmaker to mark the highest point in the main character's previously troubled life. The word "rainmaker" characterizes the success of Rudy Baylor's rollercoaster ride through the legal profession.

	The first time when we have faced the breach of justice, when Rudy is jilted by the company, where he has been supposed to work after the bar exam. The merger of Brodnax and Speer and Tinley Brit has changed all Rudy’s plan, as it has turned out, he becomes a misfit. The huge established, most prestigious and wealthiest company Tinley Brit has the personnel with many people  from the Ivy League schools. Many have federal clerkships on their pedigrees. It is a bastion of hardball conservative lawyers. Therefore, the only reason of the merger is that this company wants the client of Brodnax and Speer. So there is no need in third-rate workers let alone graduates.

	Next time we make certain that such problem is commonly found. On Rudy’s visit to the Placement Office to Madeline Skinner, it becomes clear that in law profession gets long on Ivy Leaguers and short on simple graduates. 

The book of John Grisham attracts attention to the problem of the overloaded legal profession as well as the difficulties that people from the middle class can encounter in the USA. This book is the message of concern that the urgent actions are needed to release the problem. Author reveals the world of the spokesman from the middle class with their needs, feelings, and private lives thus making his narration extremely realistic. 

The class divide has existed in all the times and everywhere. One of the most important things of the class divide is how far such inequality should go. The basic rights and freedoms cannot be violated by the class divide. At the same time the society’s members should realize that some of the freedoms give the opportunities and the government’s concern is to provide these opportunities. On the other hand such rights are declared as the opportunities of the citizens and not the obligation of the government to provide people with shelter, high income etc.

Final belonging to this or that social class depends upon the professional career of the person. The career, doubtlessly hinges the education, or better to say which university the person graduated from. The society should provide the opportunity for choosing any social class. In other words, sometimes it is not easy to climb to the upper class. It is necessary to correspond to certain requirements to take the position of chief executive officer and the professional factor is the major one. And I hope that reading further we will se the highlight of Rudy’s life.
