In layman's terms a "rainmaker" is a legal case that brings in a huge sum of money for the lawyer and the lawyer's client. John Grisham uses this term in The Rainmaker to mark the highest point in the main character's previously troubled life. The word "rainmaker" characterizes the success of Rudy Baylor's rollercoaster ride through the legal profession. Along this bumpy road Rudy, the main character, grows as an individual. Rudy adheres to his beliefs and morals, which relates to the statement that a lawyer must create his own legal style and persona in order to become successful. Because he lives by his beliefs, Rudy Baylor has strong personality traits that make him unique as a person and a lawyer.
Rudy Baylor's compassion towards his clients and people in general separates him from the sharks in his profession.

Rudy Baylor is a law graduate from Memphis State Law School. He secures a position with a Memphis law firm, which he then loses when the firm is bought out by another larger firm. As one of the few members of his class without a job lined up, Rudy is forced to apply for part-time and poorly-paid law positions. Instead of Rudy being aimed at success from the beginning, he is struggling to pass the final bar exam and just get a job. Most of his classmates have promising jobs somewhere, but Rudy has no such luck. His opportunities are very limited and when it seems like his future is brightening, the rug is quickly pulled out from under him.

“All students enter law school with a certain amount of idealism and desire to
serve the public, but after three years of brutal competition we care for nothing but the right job with the right firm where we can make partner in seven years and earn big bucks.”
His meeting with people who needs in lawyers help is very intensive.

"This is my first confrontation with actual clients, and I'm terrified. Though the prospects that are sitting out there are aged and infirm, they are staring at me as if I possess great wisdom. I am, after all, almost a lawyer, and I wear a dark suit, and I have this legal pad in front of me on which I am drawing squares and circles, and my face is fixed in an intelligent frown, so I must be capable of helping them."
Rudy stumbled upon two cases when he went with his class to a senior's center. One involves an elderly woman who claims to have ridiculously large amounts of money that she needs to take care of in her will. The second is a family with a dying son whose life could have been saved with proper treatment that the insurance company denied. He was interested in these cases and had recourse to Max Leuberg, who was a professional. Rudy didn`t want to turn his face to the wall, because of the incident with “Brodax and Speer” company and he decided to put his hand to these cases.
But when he gets home there's an eviction notice, a process server, and a lawsuit waiting for him. What's a bumbling baby-lawyer to do?

Fortunately, he has a friend and his classmate – Booker, who promised to help Rudy to survive in these competition business surroundings and call Marvin Shankle. He had a brother, who could pull some strings with the police and he had to prevent the arrest. It was a real chance to leave these incidents and failures in the past and to start afresh.

 I really appreciate his inner monologue especially about the experience of law school. His descriptions of losing and gaining employment, and the competition that exists between the graduating law students to get a job was absolutely spot on, especially in this current economic climate. His had intensive relations with his father who hated lawyers because his company a frequent target of the lawsuits. Moreover, after his father`s dead he had far-fetched relations with his mother who had never help him financially and gave no support in his cases.

Rudy Bailor had cut-throat competition with himself, with his blue blood classmates and with hostile business surroundings.

John Grisham has weaved his talent into the storyline and has created a powerful, and at times humorous, tale of one young lawyer’s quest for fame, fortune and most importantly, happiness. I am positive that this novel will rise to the best sellers list, And after reading this book, you will think alike. This novel is for all ages and all types. If the book you are searching for, is for excitement or pleasure. The Rainmaker is a great novel and provides a compelling read. John Grisham has done his homework now do yours and read this good book.
