The novel “The sea house” is an unhurried and slow narration about an English seaside village, with little happening and which focuses on attitudes and perception rather than on development and events. The novel features two protagonists who live in different time frames and never meet. The only link between them two is the place where they belong/ are living as well as minor characters who belongs to both these time frames. What makes this story so involving is that the narration is marked by attention to small details. 
Klaus Lehmann is neither a protagonist nor background figure of the novel ‘The sea house’. Lehmann is the main character of this novel, because the narration doesn’t focus on him, he isn’t given much chance to speak and to voice his opinion and he is never made into the camera eye of the story. 

The author introduces him to the reader in the extract when one of the protagonists, Lily, reads Lehmann’s letters to his wife Elsa.

I tend to believe that Klaus Lehmann was too selfish even towards his wife. Although, he wrote her very pretty and romantic letters and telegrams, but sometimes you can notice something ego-centric, for example I know a child is the one thing you most want, but don’t forget that you’ve got me or It must not be allowed that in more than a week I only receive three or four postcards, and a telegram in apology. 

Actually, nearly a month after his wife lost their baby, he wrote her that she was healthy woman and he wanted her to go to him, because he needed her there. 

Another extract can show us how ego-centered Klaus Lehmann was. It was the dinner with him at Gertrude’s. Max Meyer, Gertrude, Lehmann and his wife Elsa were sitting there, drinking sherry, braving the garden and the evening gnats. Klaus leant in towards Max Meyer and asked him if Max had been too young to fight in the first war. Max barely managed to say that he really had been too young at that time, when Lehmann continued the dialogue, which was actually looked like his own monologue. Klaus told that his life had been probably saved just because he had been the youngest of four children. Max tried to told Lehmann about his father, but Klaus was still talking, remembering the day that he was seventeen, the day his mother’s prayers ran out. Sometimes he said something as if to himself. 

Phonetically, the extract contains the explosives which are associated with the character’s anxiety by voiceless sibilants which reveal the impression by the last phrase. There are a lot of pauses and enumerations, which show us the manner of Klaus’s speech. In this way he tried to show everything in the most dramatic way he could. 
As for the choice of words, they add to the pressure and to the conflict, which is that Klaus Lehmann can’t follow what another people say. There are also a lot of pronouns, such as me and I. It is not common in traditional English literature and I tend to believe Esther Freud used these pronouns to stress ego-centric exterior of Klaus Lehmann. 

The author of the novel is a master of psychological portraying, good at detailed account of the characters` attitudes and perceptions (recall that she is a great-granddaughter of the greatest psychoanalyst of the world), their inner world even in such short extract which features even background characters rather than protagonists.
