Master Georgie is a 1998 historical novel by English novelist Beryl Bainbridge. It deals with the British experience of the Crimean War through the adventures of the eponymous central character George Hardy, who volunteers to work on the battlefields.

The novel consists of 6 chapters, which are told by certain narrator: Myrtle, an orphan girl who treats Hardy's children, Doctor Potter, an intellectual and geologist and Pompey Jones (as also known as “duck-boy”), a street performer who learns photography art from Hardy. The plot features a lot of aspects to muse over: love, Crimea War, loyalty, friendship but it shows a strong focus on love that love that has broken out between Myrtle and George Hardy. A faithful, clean, unconditional and selfless love that Master will never be got. Myrtle takes her feeling as a gift calmly and humbly: “all my life, I thought, I will stand at your side; and then I did blink, for the grandness of such a notion welled up tears in my eyes”.

For each of the protagonists the figure of the master Georgie is a key: love, jealousy, loyalty of the heroes revolve around him. They all follow Georgie in Crimea, Balaklava, in the midst of the Crimean War, and perhaps the pages devoted to the horrors of war, the strongest, most bitter, but through the prism-like lens of love both Myrtle and Pompey, war in the novel turns into a terrible phenomenon.
George relations with women are rather challenging: an orphan girl Myrtle serendipitously caught in the Hardy family, who selflessly and devotedly fell in love with his master, and over time became the mother of his children, as Annie couldn’t bear a child.

To sum up I would like to say that figure of Master Georgie in this novel is rather ambiguous. Father's death, the pressure from the mother, guilt before Myrtle and Annie determine its desire to escape to "freedom" triggered his inner conflict with himself And without that depression exacerbates George is another reason. From the perspective of Victorian morality, a man deviates from the norms of social behavior that is assigned the status of "other" by default. Feeling of "being lost" deprives hero orientation in life. I believe this fact gives rise to love Master from the side of Myrtle and Pompey.
