From the first sentence “What a Carve Up” grabs you by the throat. With a chilling depiction of political and social environment in Britain during the 1980s, the book covers the period up to the beginning of aerial bombardment against Iraq in the first Gulf War in January 1991. With a descriptive power the author focuses on all the fears of the 20th century. I have a hunch that some changes of narrative viewpoint and of time period are managed superbly well. This hilarious 1980s political satire by Jonathan Coe with multi-layered plot is unhurried and slow but can be really brain-teasing because the author is the leading master of satire. He has a gift for plot and though the book is fairly simple characters are utterly convincing and beautifully written. The author uses the first-person narrative to show the authenticity of the characters though he tends to turn to a third-person narrative to go deep into the thoughts of Winshaws and reveal their internal conflicts with themselves.

Michael Owen is both the narrator and protagonist of “What a Carve Up” The Author uses symbolic expressions and draws our attention to some episodes to reveal Michael’s attitudes toward the society, his fears and portrays him as being deep and complex. Jonathan Coe also employs some beautiful linguistic means to explicate some conflicts. For example the expression “a bolt of ice shot through me” is symbolic of the senseless of struggling against forces of nature. Being a kid Michael has to resist the nerve-tingling and endless quarrel of his grandpa and father. 

The author depicts Michael’s personalitie through his physical appearance, speech, actions, from his actions and thoughts. He is not a typical dim-witted protagonist cocooned in his own happiness. On his ninth birthday the tragic paraglider collapse changed his life forever. He was promised a visit to the newly opened children's railway and aquarium, and if weather permits, and then swimming in the outdoor pool. I have a hunch that Michael is inconsolable because he can’t overlook the plummeting misery he experienced when he dived into this unheated swimming pool. The situation became very bad when his Father and Grandpa started arguing  during watching cinema, they never missed the chance to do it that’s why many memories about his childhood fill Michael with foreboding and he can’t them pass. Maybe the reason that these memories drove him out of his wits was because all the time he spent in Weston-super-Mare, everyone was mad and it must have rubbed off onto him. Finally his mother grabbed him underneath the armpits and made him leave the seat, and for the second time he bursted into tears because of real distress so a happy birthday ended with tears. I am positive that he had tried to push aside the memories of what had happened in Weston-super-Mare, but every time he would, the events would appear in his head like he was standing there again.  It drove him insane that he could not be there for real and deep down... I guess Michael had no idea what a relief it is, after the torture of sitting and watching one moment in “What carve a Up” over and over again. These constant babbles of televisions made Michael take his woeful apartment for granted. Moreover, the Author pictures Michael from how he looks and we see both host and the apartment are woeful. The host hovered like a specter with days’ worth of stubble, and hair standing separately in need of cutting and re-styling. The whole apartment with dust was crying out for a good clear up. 

For years, Michael had to focus his efforts on writing stories about Winshaws. His stories are depressing but well written. They are sad but make the reader feel the emotion of the characters. Finally it makes no surprise that Michael got a perfect atmosphere to build his writing skills. Conventional wisdom runs that TV is one of the fibers that hold the country together but Michael responded cautiously to viewing everything but the moment in the movie that his mother forbade him to watch. He even never cut off his casual act of voyeurism to see what is currently airing on the next/previous channels so it is obvious the his nerve-system began to be dented. When he met Fiona he noticed what she said, even her name dropped into his mind with a heavy thud. When Fiona started to explain the reason of her visit Michael focused on liver spots on the back of her hand, trying to guess how old she was. 

The extremely stressful experience of his childhood and great attitude towards the problems of society manifested themselves in a worsening of his hostility towards the Winshaws. Michael Owen was abused by his childhood memories and he finally seized a chance to transform himself into a perfect narrator. I have a hunch that each person who is in the Michael’s field of vision is utterly convincing but they are all typical for their time. His stories about Winshaw family are all the same. There's Roddy, the art dealer, and Mark, the arms dealer; Dorothy, pioneeering the latest in battery farm and slaughterhouse efficiency; Thomas, the merchant banker trading secrets and favours with Henry, a turncoat MP with a special brief to dismantle the Health Service. Intermittently somebody was made a victim of this black-hearted family and Michael highlightes that all Winshaws always got away with their terrible crimes. 

 	To wrap it up I believe that Jonathan Coe managed superbly well with his deep exploration of protagonist's and narrator’s soul. This is not a book where the invisible man is the narrator and the protagonist of the story and the reader is never informed of his name because Michael is considered participant as an actual character in the story. He is not a singular and powerful individual but central are his experience, his consciousness, and his choice of life. Michael is a person who often announces the Author’s stand and he usually considerate to the viewpoints of the other characters and doesn’t make any rough quick estimates to the issue. He truly has done well when he become an writer. That is why he is the narrator of the story.“What a Carve Up” is riched in characters and Michael Owen is the most unusual of all the company and all the characters of a book. 
