To start with, I would like to say a few words about the author of the book. Esther Freud is the daughter of artist Lucian Freud and Bernadine Coverley and is the great-granddaughter of Sigmund Freud. She has written a great number of books, among which: Hideous Kinky (1992), Peerless Flats (1993), Gaglow (1997), The Wild (2000), Love Falls (2007) and The Sea House. I will focus on the last one.
London born, Esther Freud writes a subtle yet intriguing novel. The action is taken place in the small seaside village of Steerborough, which is a few hours away from London. 

The first view on the cover makes us imagine an evening in the resort city, that make some mystery and it impels us to think: why the heroine is alone. We also can presume, that this is the novel of place as we see the picture of the place, where the hero spends her sad, loneliness evening. We can assume that the central theme of the novel - is loneliness.

When start reading, we find out that there are two narratives.

The protagonist is twenty-seven year old Lily, who lives in London with her boyfriend, Nick.  It is hard to see why Lily puts up with Nick, her, work-obsessed boyfriend. (“He is just a selfish urbanite, a slave to his mobile phone”).  Lily is pursuing a degree in architecture and working on her thesis, whose subject is deceased architect Klaus Lehmann, a former resident of Steerborough.

The main hero, architect Klaus Lehmann, loves his wife, Elsa, with a passion that continues throughout their married life despite long periods of separation. Almost half a century after Lehmann's death in the village of Steerborough arrives Lily and explore his life and work. Studing over Klaus's letters to Elsa, Lily pieces together the story of their lives together and apart. And alone in her rented cottage by the sea ("Lily's cottage"), she begins to sense an unavailability in her own life that may not be filled by simply going home.

The stories are told in alternate times: in 1953 and 2000. There are several connections between heroes: the village – they live in the same place, both, Lehmann and Nick, are architects and they love their women partly, Lily as well as Lehmann have two children.

We can pursue that this is the novel of place. The novel starts with the phrase: “All his life, Max dreamt of houses” and during the book we acquainted with many of them: “Marsh End” (Gertrude’s house), “Hidden House” (“there is on the map, but there was nothing there”).

This Freud's novel is an exploration of the ways in which generations intersect. In two narratives set respectively in 1953 and 2000, it digs into loneliness and passion, landscape and people's sense of place. Return to cover, there is only one person painted on the beach.

Escaping from London, Lily rents a cottage in Steerborough on the Suffolk coast. While studying the work and letters of the architect Klaus Lehmann, Lily found out, that with his wife Elsa he visited Steerborough in the summer of 1953. During her research, Lily finds the love letters of Klaus and Elsa. Lily is very wistful as her boyfriend, Nick, can't even write a good letter. There seems to be no mitigating to him and it becomes ever more often to see Lily dispatch him.

Freud shows a truth about the Lehmanns' marriage, which is more complex than the letters suggest. While Lily's research is supposed to be focused on Lehmann's work as an architect, she quickly becomes intrigued by the possessive love and devotion showed in Klaus's letters to Elsa. While working on letters, Lily cannot avoid examining her relationship with Nick, realizing that there are absences in her own life. Nonetheless, Lily's research inspires to change her life. Freud uncovers loneliness with painful precision, showing the isolation and the power of love. Freud weaves the Lehmanns' letters through Lily's story to lend beauty and passion to a stagnant life.

Freud devotes considerable attention to the geography and weather conditions of Steerborough, which gives the reader a good sense of life in the quiet, seaside village. The village of Steerborough, a marshy, saline place that held generations in its thrall, is central to the novel. Freud evokes the fondness which visitors feel for the village and shows how the landscape has a revolutionary effect on the characters' state of mind - lives flood with feeling as dramatically as the shoreline floods with water. Freud's characters are entirely believable, especially as they repeat one another's mistakes.

The Sea House is the story of the village of Steerborough, the swamps (that delay heroes) and the sea beyond. It is the story of one generation living in the footprints of another, of a landscape shaped by lives, and lives shaped by landscape. With characteristic skill Esther Freud explores the twisting paths that people take and the places where those paths meet.
