«Portobello» is one of the world-known, mind-bending diamonds of english fiction, shaped and polished by great novelist Ruth Rendell. «Captivating» novel, as Time Out proclaims, promices to be an absorbing time-pass with a very first look you throw on the book. A black-coloured cover studded with the bright windows and shiny letters is subconciously associated with the stars struggling through the darken sky. The reader can only guess what the author is hushing up under this stylish binding and eye-catching title. Evidently, Portobello is starring London, as there’s no any other place in the city that would allure that much the tempted tourists. At this mysterious street, breathing historical events you turn into real englishmen walking around, buying antiques, chatting with a sophisticated connoisseurs of art as though half of the century ago. It’s doubtlessly the Heaven on Earth while going straight forward your way and never look aside, as «our darkest fears can hide in the brightest places» waiting for you to dare turn off the road.

	It's unveiled truth that Ruth Rendell is a master of stand-alone fiction. It motherlands psychologically sophisticated characters: there's nothing common about them, but their lives, fears and obsession. In this light Portabello only adds to the author's volume of world-famous masterpieces. With the finesse and elegance Rendell produced three sets of characters - victims of their black-outs. The book headlines the story of chocoholic Eugene Wren, Lance afflicted with his ex and Joel craving for fatherly approval. Once their lives are overlapped, each is drawn towards a change in his live that will  require drastic adjustment after difficulties. What makes the reader kept on the hook is a mystery, that specifies the lives of the characters peppered with the obstacles they have to daily face with. 

	In the final analysis, we have to admit that Ruth Rendell possesses two admirable attributes - the art of elegant prose and a powerful imagination. The master of novel, she interlocked different characters, put them into the opposite conditions, granted with the same curse, hushed their secrets and breathed life into them to find out who is able to leave his darkest fears behind.
