Portobello is a novel of a British writer Ruth Rendell published in 2008. This book with deceptively simple style features a number of Londoners rich and poor alike living near the Portobello road market whose paths cross by an accident rather then design. The title of the book takes its name after Portobello Road, a street in the Notting Hill district in west London which got its name from Puerto Bello, a Spanish silver port in the Gulf of Mexico that was captured by Admiral Sir Edward Vernon in 1739. As the surrounding communities developed, shops were opened along the road, new houses were built. Currently it is home to Portobello Road Market, one of London's notable street markets, known for its second-hand clothes and antiques. However, Portobello Road's distinctiveness does not just rely on its market. A range of communities inhabiting the street and the district contributes to a cosmopolitan and energetic atmosphere, as do the many restaurants and pubs. The architecture plays a part, too, as the road meanders and curves gracefully along most of its length, unlike the more formally planned layout of most of the nearby area. Mid- to late-Victorian terrace houses and shops predominate, squeezed tightly into the available space, adding intimacy and a pleasing scale to the streetscape. 

The author makes emphasis on obsessions and addictions. This is a novel of secrets, of psychoses small and large that haunt both the best and worst in a person. Eugene, the central character of the novel, has a shameful addiction to sweets which affects his long-term relationship with Ella, his fiancée. Joel is concerned by a family tragedy that his ripped his life in two. Lance finds a life of the wealthy ato be something that he cannot understand but craves all the more, his uncle Gib seems to be obsessed with religion. The tagline says: “Our darkest fears can hide in the brightest places…” These people, each with his/her own issues, wander throughout the pages of Portobello as Rendell delicately reveals the creepy delusions and urges that make up the psyches of the lonely and desperate. The words Ruth Rendell says about the Portobello: “The Portobello has a rich personality, vibrant, brilliant in color, noisy, with graffiti that approach art, bizarre and splendid. An indefinable edge to it adds a spice of danger. There is nothing safe about the Portobello, nothing suburban. It is as far from an average shopping street as can be imagined”, reveals her own addiction, addiction to the city.

To wrap it up we might conclude that this novel is a nerve – tingling, pulse – quickening, suspense – building piece of read. It involves utterly convincing characters and subtle plot twists. The author is a leading master of vastly absorbing and entertaining fiction with a flawless grasp of both character and narrative. The book fires imagination and captivates the reader from the very first page. 
