Ruth Rendell is a leading master of detective story who wrote a heart-pounding book “Portobello” that captures the reader from the very first page. “Portobello” ” is a truly gripping book with immaculately crafted exploration and with a touch of insanity and crime mixed in. It’s an open secret that the Portobello road is a famous road in London. And Rendell created a beautifully detailed detective story as she appeared to be pressing on the reader and sensitized a reader to the characters and to the place at the same time. In addition the author fleshed out and twisted the events in the book fascinatingly in a way.

Portobello lives and breathes its own life and in terms of the novels Rendell has  beautifully written the city and characters at the same time. The description of the Portobello Road in London brings the area to life, making it a character in its own right. The atmosphere of the place is rendered superbly, and it feels almost like a foreign country, an eccentric bazaar rich in both wares and people, full of contrasts in class, naivety and wealth.

There are some parts of the book that have gripped my attention with an immaculately crafted exploration of the street and that makes me feel that I could see Portobello with my own eyes. For example… The Portobello has a rich personality, vibrant, brilliant in colour, noisy with graffiti that approach art, bizarre and splendid. an indefinable edge to it adds a spice of danger. There is nothing safe about the Portobellolasses and walks of life , nothing suburban. It is as far from an average shopping street as can be imagined. those who love and those who barely know it have called it the world’s finest street.  I consider that Ruth Rendell has skillfully described this street as a unique phenomenon with its own atmosphere, characters, corners and markets. Portobello unites a cast of colorful characters from different and walks of life.

Finally, I believe that “Portobello” is a brilliant complex featuring a dazzling depiction of one of London’s most intriguing neighborhoods—and the dangers beneath its newly posh veneer. Rendell is strong on sense of place. She described London so real that made it more enticing than its inhabitants.  And I believe that all the heroes of “Portobello” are  inextricably connected to each other due to  this  street and therefore all their fates are directly interlaced. I enjoyed this book. I liked the way the city was evoked and the parallel between the narrative viewpoint and the events in the book are  managed superbly. Moreover, I consider that  Ruth Rendell wrote “Portobello”  so  skillfully that we can easily form a mental picture of  London: grey streets, colorful windows, tastaceous river, steel sky, wall of lights, purple cloudscape… Each of us will discover his own cozy place in London while reading  “Portobello”
