The literature as such has gone a long way from simplistic sets of barely decipherable works, in terms of both storytelling and the messages implied, to masterpieces so deep and beautifully narrated, that we can do nothing but to admire, appreciate and adulate our most cherished stories written by our favorite novelists. The twentieth century is remarkable for the gifted authors from all around the world, who has been working in the whole spectrum of diverse genres. The list is rather longish, and there is no point in trying to outline all the significant writers who has been born and written in the course of that particular epoch. One of them is not as popular as, let’s say, Vladimir Nabokov or Francis Scott Fitzgerald, but he has a nice close-knit audience that regard him as the leading writer of legal thrillers genre. The man’s name is John Grisham; he is the one from whose pen such masterpieces as ‘The Firm’, ‘The Chamber’, ‘The Client’, ‘Skipping Christmas’ and ‘The Rainmaker’ were born. His books have been translated into twenty nine languages and published worldwide; his novels have been adapted into the movies ten times, and the eleventh adaptation is currently in the pipeline. The book we are to brood over is the last one of those listed above – the novel finished and published in 1995 – ‘The Rainmaker’.

The sole protagonist of the novel is Rudy Baylor, a young would-be lawyer clawing his way through Memphis State Law School. In the first part of the book we can find Rudy trying to overcome a few challenges that seem to pile up on the young bright legal eagle. At first everything looked bright and shining – it’s just a couple of months before the bar exam, Rudy secures a position at ‘Brodnax and Speer’, a small hum-and-egg lawyer outfit, he dreams of a fledgling career and looks forward to shedding blood in the name of the Law. First chapters witness him meeting Miss Birdsong and a poor family, Dot and Buddy Black, whom he’s met during a class visit to a community center, each of whom have a picturesque backstory and a need to have their ears filled with legal advice. Birdsong needs her will amended, a regular legal procedure, but for one thing – she owns a net worth at least twenty million dollars, which is a massive amount of money for middle 90’s. Blacks want advice concerning ‘Great Benefit’, the medical insurance company that has refused to cover for the young Donny Ray Black’s leukemia treatment – the case that makes Rudy smell blood as the company certainly doesn’t have their hands clean. So, Baylor is elated. He is young and strong, he has an office and he has at least two cases that could cost a fortune each.

And this is the time when things go upside down. Rudy learns that the firm he is supposed to work with has been taken over by a classy outfit ‘Tinley Britt’ that doesn’t need him as an employee – they are just way too long on Ivy Leaguers and short on common people from humble families with no impressive pedigrees. Thus, it changes everything – suddenly he realizes that he has to pay for his crumbling and sputtering Toyota, for his grungy efficiency and for other debts. Lacking a position will put his very existence in danger as he needs money to get by before he passes the bar (or flunks it). Lacking a position will make him incapable of conducting legal business – wills and bad-faith cases included. Lacking a position can become a great implication that would torture a poor lawyer long-term in the worst way possible. 

But as we all know, big challenges call for rapid reaction, and this case is no exception. After Rudy has taken in the fact that he had been practically jilted by the established company, he decides to do the only little that he could. The first thing he does is pay a visit to the Placement Office at the university, where he’d ask Ms. Skinner, who is in charge there, to find him any job. She has enormous clout with the Law School students, and there’s a reason for that – when it comes to helping, she’d do anything to aid the students – she’d shout, pull the right strings, get into huge catfights on the phone, anything in order to find them a job. However, Rudy knows that the legal profession is overcrowded and the chance that she’ll find anything is as little as a mustard seed. He himself eases down to the streets and knocks on the doors of firms that could hypothetically accommodate him. He arranges a plan of visiting a dozen of firms every day, paying special attention to those that have been founded by the Memphis State Law School graduates. He doesn’t have high expectations, though, – he understands that the best scenario is dealing with fish files and shoveling the manure from his potential boss’s office. The worst one is ambulance chasing, which he is not looking forward to at all. In parallel with the city combing, Rudy continues to tend the bar at ‘Yogi’, a sleazy joint with a sleazy owner, Prince Thomas who use it to launder cash taken from skin-business he holds as well. It has been helpful for Rudy to stay afloat, but he can’t pay off the debts with only a few bucks a day he earns there. After receiving an eviction notice and a summons, Rudy, following a piece of advice from his fellow student and a friend Booker, decides to file for bankruptcy, so that he won’t be taken to court by force and be fleeced. To do so he must be downright unemployed, so Rudy suggests Prince to switch to off-the-official-records working. Prince is more than happy to accept such a change – he is a firm disciple of cash-and-no-taxes economics after all. 

So, this is how Rudy Baylor tries to survive in the hostile business surroundings. He spins in all directions, but all in vein – countless firms visited, hopes and prayers lead to nowhere. Further in the book we’ll see that Madeline Skinner is powerless, all the jobs found require a license or experience (or both). There will be a break in the clouds for Rudy. He will find a firm ready to recruit him only to be cheated on once again. The solution comes from an unexpected party, but this is a whole different story to tell. 
