Sometimes a book can hook the reader on the very first page. A character can be so lively that a reader may have a sense that s/he is encountering a real person. Definitely, to make a character of that particular kind, author should become one with the character. Apart from that, the most important tool employed by an author is a first-person narration. Reading a first-person narrative, we get acquainted with the main character and he is our guide through the book – we believe and empathize him, he leads us through a plot which snakes like a forest pathway with many ups and downs as in a real life. John Grisham didn’t fail to flesh the peripheral characters out – he did a great job in describing others, making them lively either.

The protagonist of ‘The Rainmaker’ is Rudy Baylor, a law school student living a tough life. He came from an ignoble family, his father an ex-Marine, who just wanted to send him away to Navy school, considering the fact that all the boys should live by the crack of the whip. But Rudy disobeyed – he developed a quick tongue and an aversion to discipline, and despite his father hated lawyers Rudy’s decision to become a lawyer was irrevocably sealed. His mother didn’t offer Rudy even a dime of the money granted after his father’s death, he lived on his own. Before the bar exam, a stroke of luck dawned upon him – he met an old lady, Ms. Birdie, who needed to have her will rewritten, as she didn’t want to leave money to her sons that almost forgot about her existence, though she had a net worth of at least $20 million. Rudy was quite happy about the matter, but another case lied in wait for him. The Blacks suddenly turned for legal advice – their son was dying from leukemia, as he needed a bone marrow transplant. This was a hard-to-win tangled case related to an insurance company that refused to pay for the medical treatment, besides the Blacks hadn’t got too much money to pay. From now on, Rudy has encountered with two paths, between which he had to choose whether to obtain an exorbitant sum of money or to help people with that hard case and go down in history. 

Grisham highlights Rudy’s feelings in every chapter. Family relations, private life, university matters and the people surrounding Rudy are likely to be real. Rudy is kind of a rebel, who can easily walk in a law firm, spit in the sculpture face and shove it – but it’s no accident – he is distressed for people who were fired for no reason, he hates these fat cats, tycoons that fire people without giving a second thought. Previously, Rudy tells a reader about huddles of bluebloods in law school. Certainly, these will have a better jobsite, let alone a much higher salary.

Throughout the book Rudy is filled with emotions, which explain all his feelings to a reader and make him livelier. Grisham gives a reader an opportunity to go deep, delve into the thoughts of the protagonist, still the peripheral characters, their thoughts and further actions are vague, and the protagonist is the only one character who will tell the reader about them. Exactly this tool makes the protagonist dynamic, the plotting intricate and the book a page-turner. Grisham wanted to show a reader the real life of a would-be attorney came from poor background – crumbling flat, no job, problems and difficulties arise one after another. The events in the book are described in such way, that the reader can easily plunge into the book and live the life of the protagonist to the fullest; hence this will make the reader love the main character more.
