A well-know contemporary novel by Jonathan Coe called “What a Carve Up!” is far more extraordinary than one can ever guess. The blurbs on the back cover provide rather a plain description of the plot suggesting that we are about to read about a biographer on his way to work on the next book. The first sensation you get is holding “another bestselling novel” in your hand which you are definitely not eager to read. And it is where your expectations fail. It will take you just one chapter1 to be “dropped out of the boat” and feel as astonished and puzzled as one can be. It is an open secret that novels tend to have multi-layered plotting with characters sometimes having nothing in common at the very beginning of the story (and no doubt they will by some coincidence meet in the end), but the difference between heroes of this novel is so dramatic that probably no person alive could connect the dots and get to the point off the cuff. 

As you open the book you get the Winshaw family whose story begins in year 1942. The prologue gives you a rather detailed and versatile insight in the relations within the family, the social status of the Winshaws, their mutual and personal plans for the future and the existing and probable clashes. The narration seems smooth and straight forward. And then out of the blue you get Michael who comes from different background, lives by totally different rules, has incommensurable problems as well as aims and by all means has nothing in common with Winshaws. This ruins the clear understanding the reader might have had just few pages ago and not a single clue could help you work out the connection between the characters. However the story with all its mysteries and concealments grabs you by the throat and keeps you turning page after page gobbling down every single piece of information. 

As you sweep through several chapters you come to understanding that the novel is simply stuffed with ideas and prompts to brood on various mind-bending big and smaller issues. Being at the page near the middle of the book it is next to impossible to say without faltering what the story is all about due to a mixed narration and frequent switches between characters and background. However it is possible to mark out some trends. 

Probably one of the biggest issues raised in this novel as well as one of the most obvious once is the discrepancy between social classes. As you witness the concerns and deadlocks of the affluent and the underprivileged you inevitably start comparing the people’s lives and come to the conclusion that your background determines your whole existence. Reading the story of Hilary who was born into an affluent family and always had everything she wanted at her feet you feel as if her life – with all its complexities and twists – goes light and smooth gradually giving way to all sorts of success. And what is more important Hilary herself never professed laconic wit, shown involvement in the subject she was engaged in and she was definitely not a saint by nature.

 Meanwhile Michael’s life story looks like a tale of an all-round troublemaker. Michael was an ordinary boy with the ordinary common troubles any of us experienced when young. At the same time having done nothing bad Michael fails to arrive in life and insensibly reaches the bottom of the society finding himself one day seating in his armchair, watching TV 24/7 and having hard times differing virtual world from reality.

There is a rationale behind that as one might claim: affluent people have more opportunities open to them due to more developed networking, sufficient budget and social status. Their personalities and professional potential are almost never an obstacle to fulfil their dreams and as a result high society has all chances to live a flawless life (and it looks like it does). As for the grassroots they should work hard to reach their goals and the lack of opportunities tells on their everyday life: people have thousands of problems chaining like beads on a pearl necklace. 

And even though this idea is generally conveyed in the novel through different ways to describe life stories of people with different social backgrounds a considerate and perceptible reader will notice some “flaws”. When you read those parts of the book devoted to Winshaw family you mostly get to know various stories of success and splendid lives of celebrities, but then – for few lines only – you come across revelations that give you a clue that the life of the mighty is not that flawless. Affluent people do fracture their hands, feel hatred and sadness, failure and disappointment and they do face life-affirming experience and finally dive out of their wits. These facts might start a train of thoughts in your mind that will finally lead you to a revelation that the difference is not that dramatic. The truth is as simple as that: the grass is always greener on the other side of the fence.
