Literary works – like any product of art – are generally meant to deliver a message. They are not just means to entertain readers with the words and the images they conjure up in their mind but are set to make people think, use their ability to absorb and process information to their benefit. One of the principal tools authors employ to drive the plot is the conflict. Thanks to conflicts novels get the fitting push to introduce to readers many diverse topics and themes initially embedded in the work. Conflicts abound in literature. Protagonists are known to fight against society, nature, themselves and, of course, other men – individuals who vie with the heroes for various reasons. In the novel ‘The Rainmaker’ written by John Grisham in 1995 there is such a conflict. One of the most prominent writers who excels in writing books about the legal field – about lawyers and legal cases – he tells a story about a young specialist who strives to outdo his seasoned and famous counterpart. This antagonism between the two is one of the chief story components. This work about strong personalities and conflicting outlooks is a formidable example of what we call a veritable class, a struggle which gradually transforms into a real war. 

The protagonist of the novel is a young man named Rudy Baylor. In the beginning of the novel Rudy is portrayed as a would-be lawyer who is clawing his way through Memphis State Law School and is looking forward to becoming an associate with Brodnax and Speer, a small ham-and-egg legal outlet. He is preparing for the bar exam and, despite being all tingles and shakes, is sure that he is destined to have a fledgling career. He is looking forward to shedding blood in the name of Law and winning reputation not through dubious means like ambulance chasing but through being a trustworthy, reliable and honest specialist who is not afraid of the challenges that would surely fall his way. In the first chapters of the book Rudy meets Dot and Buddy Black, a family who have come to Cypress Gardens Senior Citizens Building, where Rudy is volunteering with other students, to ask for advice concerning their son Donny Ray. The story is that an insurance company – Great Benefit – has refused to cover Donny Ray’s leukemia treatment claiming that his affliction is not listed in the policy. Later on there will be other excuses, some of which are poor and outwardly lame. The refusal has ended badly for the young man as now he is nearing his death and nothing can be done to revert the condition. Baylor understands that the company is definitely responsible and the staff’s hands are not so clean. He smells blood and is eager to bring the case to court one way or another. Unluckily for Rudy Baylor, some unexpected obstacles fall in his way. To be exact, Brodnax and Speer, the firm he is planning to work with, has been taken over by a classy outfit Tinley Britt that is so long on Ivy Leaguers and so short on ordinary alumni that Rudy is immediately cut off the list of prospective associates. Being desperate and indebted, in an attempt to find a job, he eventually becomes part of Prince’s shady labor scheme and starts to hustle legal cases for his superior. When doing so, he meets different people who will become important figures in the story. Thus he meets Deck, his scheme counterpart, and Kelly, his love prospect. Ultimately, Prince’s business shatters into shards and Rudy, with a velvet touch of Deck, flees with some of the cases he has laid his hands on during his work. By that time he has already passed the bar and got his license, and Deck suggests that they open their own tiny firm with Rudy acting as the leading lawyer. He agrees and starts his crusade against Great Benefit. His biggest adversary who acts on behalf of the company is Leo F. Drummond.

Leo Drummond is much more experienced and celebrated a lawyer in Memphis. Posh and slick, he is a complete opposition to Rudy who is featured as a very informal and truly compassionate person. Drummond is a Yale-trained senior partner at Tinley Britt which is a funny coincidence as his firm is the one responsible for Rudy losing his initial position with Brodnax and Speer. That pours even more oil on the flames and urges Rudy to fight till the last gasp. He barely loses and thus he is an extremely dangerous rival in the courtroom. His manners are impeccable, his voice is always calm and seemingly sympathetic, and it is difficult to make him lose his temper. He is paid a thousand dollars an hour which signals his status of a very prominent and well-paid legal counselor only wealthy clients can afford. He is known to have many friends in the legal world, for example, his fellow roommate and Yale friend Harvey Hale. The book could have been so much shorter if not for the death of the aging Judge Hale. Over the years Drummond and Hale have mastered the ‘good-cop-bad-cop’ strategy which has probably helped them win many ambiguous cases. 

The Black case could have been no exception but the judge died at an appropriate time. At first Drummond tried to revoke the claim by saying that Rudy had no license. Tongue-lashing broke out, but in the end he had to succumb, and the trial started paving the way for a good legal brawl. This very moment Rudy understood that it was either sink or swim.  

In the first half of the novel the scales are entirely outweighed by Leo Drummond. He has the fame and dazzling reputation, he has a whole dozen of minions who can drown Rudy in the paperwork and he has a supportive judge by his side. He would have won the case before getting down to the actual legal proceedings. However, the judge dies right before the trial. With his death Rudy gets a massive relief in the face of the new judge appointed in place of the deceased. Judge Tyrone Kipler grants Rudy the helping hand and enormous support. This equals the chances of both lawyer; however, Drummond still has more resources than his young opponent. He still has more money on his hands, more authority and more people to work on the case, whereas Rudy has only Deck and that is it. Unlike Rudy, Drummond decides to play dirty at some point of the investigation – he has to play this way because his employers have been caught red-handed plus they have been constantly shooting themselves in the leg by not handing the necessary papers to their own lawyer, and the only way to win the case is to use illicit ploys. As a result, he decides to bug Rudy’s office in an attempt to use the overheard information to his advantage. Luckily for Rudy Deck notices that the phone has a bug attached to the receiver. In fact such good fortune alongside with Rudy’s hairsplitting attitude immensely helps him outplay experienced Drummond. In contrast to his scheming counterpart Rudy employs a dissimilar strategy, an over-the-counter one. It is his meticulous work and compassion that eventually yield fruit. Rudy has been relentless. He does all he can and what is required of him as a lawyer and as a human being. He visits the Blacks and keeps them aware of what is going on, consults Dot Black on how to act during the trial, he even makes friends with Donny Ray Black. Apart from that he works the witnesses, goes to Cleveland to Great Benefit’s headquarters by coach, skims the documents, drafts and practices the speeches he delivers in the courtroom, he practically memorizes them to the minutest detail. He is so consumed by work that he can barely sleep at night. However, we must give some credit to Leo Drummond as well. All in all, he is just a scapegoat pounced by both the legal opposition and his employer, and yet he tries to regain composure over and over again like a real professional who he definitely is. We may accuse him of illegal methods but we simply have no right to question his professionalism. Even when being thrashed he remains dignified and keeps his chin up. Closer to the end of the novel Drummond himself is forced to walk in Rudy’s shoes. He picks at any straw he can to win over his colleague and at least reduce the damages that are sure to come. He too lacks sleep and works hard but that is not enough to save Great Benefit from collapsing. There is no salvation and forgiveness for corruption. Rudy symbolically wins the case, Drummond loses.

So, we can see that these two lawyers are very unlike each other in their character, field experience and approaches, let alone the number of assistants who help them with the correspondence and trivia. They both have their own strengths and weaknesses, and the fighting between them is one of the most compelling and mind-grabbing facets in the novel. ‘The Rainmaker’ is a good example of a legal struggle where two ‘strong’ characters-lawyers are continuously trying to beat one another using legal and psychological tools and tricks. This is one of a few key driving tools in the book which makes it interesting to read and muse over. And to keep the brain busy too. Apart from that John Grisham shows us that even a lawyer – a faceless machine which is meant to enforce the letter of the law – has to stay human, that compassion is an important feature to bear. Moreover, he shows us that the only way to reach heights is to be diligent, – like Rudy Baylor who turned out to be the first past the post in this story.
