Things are forever changing. The hosts of different things that are familiar at the first glance, the people and their altitude, the way you live and even the way you think change countless times as years roll on. Remarkable belongings – or at least most of them – lose its importance; friends and persons you barely know slowly merge into acquaintances, zeitgeists; you yourself change. Sometimes the changes are so colossal that if you come across a person you’ve last seen years and years ago, they’ll almost certainly admit it – you, being a completely different person.  There are dozens of reasons that lead to changes: it might be time, an influence of a person or a new settlement – rehousing, for example, - or even a mixture of these unrelated factors. The main plot of Jill Dawson’s novel “Magpie” is exactly about this – the change, the attempt to find comfort in a place that makes men hostage to circumstances and happenstances.

Before entering the pudding club Bob and Brenda were almost to make a pact with God as all the previous attempts to start a pregnancy had been failures. But that time God was merciful enough to present the couple the biggest gift possible – the whirr of blond hair, enormously big grey – almost steel-like – eyes, irritating cries and the necessity to mollify the precious, miniscule child in the nights. That’s how Lily Waite, the heroine of the novel, started her journey of life. Being raised in a family where mother and father are over mesmerized by the girl left a mark on Lily’s personality. The first thing that is strikes the eye is the heroine being steered through life. At first the guides were Lily’s parents, then there was Alan, at some point Lily’s whole life was described as a hushed existence which is no surprise, taking into account the place where the family lived – a not-of-the-biggest-in-population village – and the principle abide in the family, the principle of “noninvolvement”. So, the lack of onlookers who are were nosy and excessive parental guidance were immediate in result, which was Lily’s incapacity to act in society as independent as she probably should had. In other words, Lily was socially unadapted at some extend. Or, at least, unadapted when it comes to living in a big city all alone with a child, moneyless and husbandless. 

The novel starts with the image of Lily and tumbling Mathew arriving at the edifice where they were moved after a fire that had burned their late residence down. From this time on, the evolution – or it’s better to say ‘the sharpening of edges’ – of Lily’s character begins. 

When Lily arrived at London’s inner city, she breathed freely for the first time in her life. Though, the house in which she and her child stayed was not of her brightest expectations, she was on her own, ready to start everything from scratch. But after sometime she started realizing that everything is not as simple as it could possibly be. Different problems started amassing almost immediately: inability to go through money like water, a strong necessity to be self-conscious, having misgivings about the future, Mathew bulling at school and other onerous things, she couldn’t afford to dispense with, mingled with the way she got by. Such dodgy times could break a person unless the person is strong-willed. Lily was not strong enough which led to scenes and actions she should have known better than to do. At first she plunders a credit card, sent to her by mistake, soon after she begins a relationship with a married man – it’s hard to tell if she lied down in bed with Josh from the dizzying sense of freedom or from desperation, but this approach is not appreciated anyway, – moreover, she attempts to steal from a shop – her intention was surely well-meaning but stealing often lead to the turning point with no way back. 

The changes took long to come to surface. In the middle of the book we still can find the female protagonist feckless, dizzy and flickering, even childish – the significant episode is the one of Lily ‘working’, when she swapped working for fooling around and using another family’s property for her own purposes. She still keeps bound with Josh and even tries to make up plans for shiny future with this Rastafarian. Mathew’s still disobedient; all the tries to tame him are ending up in fails. We also knew that the reason why Alan broke up with Lily which was the character of Lily and her carelessness, plus misunderstandings between the ex-couple.

Closer to the end of the novel the character’s evolvement finally started to zoom in. Given a secondary job, Lily starts to feel more or less confident, and the episodes describing Waite’s financial needs don’t appear any more, paving the way for focusing on the relationships and peripheral characters. Lily reveals Mathew the jiffy bag, sent by Alan and tries to break the spell. It is not shown if the boy and the mother start to get on peacefully but we can predict that slightly matured Lily will at least have a try. Lily stops ruminating about her past and decides to get over it. Despite heroine’s intention to make a family with Josh, they split up for various reasons: Josh’s longings to carry memories of his passed away son Neville, love for his current wife Daphine and the wife’s return. 

So, all in all, throughout the book progression we can observe the main heroine – Lily Waite – grows as a character and a person. Under the train’s of human events pressure she had to mature, become a fully-developed part of the society, pad the way from a province girl with no experience to a young lady who could actually survive most of the trivial problems and challenges existing. It has to be admitted that she does not really grow in character which does not change much – she still has all her previous traits of her personality almost untouched – but it is obvious that Lily gains knowledge that might be handy in her long-term evolvement. In the end of the book we have the same Lily we’ve had in the beginning of the story but more adult, more independent and much stronger.
