"The Rainmaker" by John Grisham is one of the best books I have read in a long time. John Grisham has a marvelous tools of humanizing his characters which entice readers and give a full vision on the situation.

The main character of this book is Rudy Baylor, a 3rd Yr. Law student at Memphis State. As a 3rd Yr., he is scrambling to find employment, recovering from a broken heart, and taking the easiest classes he can until the Bar Exam. One of these classes is Legal Problems of the Elderly, "Geezer Law," in which Prof. Smoot takes them to Nursing Homes to do pro bono work. Here, Rudy meets Dot and Buddy Black and Ms. Birdsong. Rudy is trying to help all of them and remedy the imbalance in their situations. To make Rudy closer to readers, the author describes him as a deadbeat, just a misfit, I mean Rudy is a simple guy from an ordinary family. His decision to become a lawyer was irrevocably sealed when he realized that his father was against it and really hated any lawyers. He had a difficult relationship with his family and he lived by the crack of the whip, that is why when he matured into a fervent lawyer he had an aversion to discipline. He clawed his way through the college and it was an unbearable way. 

John Grisham is trying to associate Rudy with every potential reader. First of all, he shows his problems with a family, and it is an open secret that any teenagers or differently aged group of people likely to have the same problems and they often collide with a lot of misunderstandings from their parents, who want to oblige their child to do what they say and ,eventually, it attract a storm of controversy. Secondly, all Rudy's problems are on the show. We can see how he claws his way through the life, how he struggles, how he has to starve and scratch and even hits the streets. Grisham is trying to identify all Rudy's obstacles with those, which any reader can have. With a vengeance, Rudy musters the courage to carve a slice of lucrative lawyer market and have a fledgling career in this filed. As we can see, he is ready to any kind of work while he is hovering just above the poverty line. Thirdly, this book features a different kind of human emotions and feelings, for instance, in some chapters we can see such phrases as " his head is pounding; his eyes are still puffy; his tongue is thick and ponderous". Such phrases make an enormous clout on readers as it describes the emotional and physical state of human beings. Apart from Rudy he have another characters, who were brilliantly described by John Grisham. Through the assistance of good friends, some rather shady and questionable characters, sheer luck and perseverence, Rudy navigates the legal backwaters of Memphis, big Insurance, tough women and a dying young man who touches the heart. Anyone who reads this can't help but be totally drawn into the story of Donny Ray Black and what Rudy will do for this family.

There is a very interesting friendship between Rudy and Booker Kane, a black law student who is Rudy's best friend and already has a wife, 2 kids and a job with the biggest and best all black law firm in Memphis. Through all Rudy's trials and tribulations, the friendship remains, strained at times, but connections and introductions made that have an impact no one could have expected until the end.
As in all Grisham novels, there are plot twists, surprises, great characters, wonderfully awful bad guys, some real creeps and a girl. The locations are extremely well detailed, as are all Grisham's locations - you can almost smell the garden behind Birdie's house, and feel the weight of the bags and bags of mulch, taste the coffee and feel that it tastes weak, bland and stale. 

Grisham is a compelling author and all his tools of humanizing characters really make us read this book from title- page to colophon.
