The issue of social inequality has always been central to English literature and the image of a person from a humble background making his way up through his hard work tends to be a bit overused by novelists. In fact the theme of "The Collector" by J. Fowles brings us back to the Victorian Era when a no-one, a humble person is given prominence. On the other hand, the novel is dramatically different from classical English literature as there are no virtues to be rewarded and wrongdoings to be punished. 

The story starts with a young clerk, who works in the City Hall, winning a large prize on football pools. The author portrays Frederick Clegg as an emotionless collector of butterflies, who is unable to interact with people. Being parentless he has been raised in the family of an overprotective aunt and his vision of life has always been blurred and simplistic. He hasn’t even tried to find his mother, who abandoned him at the age of three and he has been unable to forgive her. 

In the beginning of the novel Frederick describes his would-be captive Miranda Grey as ‘elusive, sporadic and very refined. More for the real connoisseur’. This episode reveals that she is likely to make another exhibit in his collection and he is unable to treat her as a real personality. But what makes Frederick Clegg such a shallow personality?

I tend to believe, that the main reason why the protagonist of the novel is seen as a very mediocre individual representing the petty bourgeois class is the fact that he hasn’t earned his fortune himself. He is simply lucky to win an enormous sum of money by making a bet in the football pools. From this perspective Frederick can be contrasted to Martin Eden – the protagonist of the novel by Jack London. Unlike Frederick he had to educate himself and endure grimy work to finally become a famous novelist. Throughout the storyline the character of Martin grows and evolves, while a City Hall clerk has never even attempted to become a rounded personality. 
Likewise, his captive Miranda Grey doesn’t come from a blueblood family, but she has always been a brilliant student of the art school. John Fowles describes her as an artist who is open to the world and new ideas, a beautiful young lady with an ability to see beauty nearly in everything. The author shows her as somewhat arrogant and snobbish as a typical student with an established British university. From my angle, a reader may feel that during long conversations Frederick and Miranda speak different languages, while dwelling on similar topics. It can be explained due to a dramatic difference in their Weltanschauung.

Frederick tends to divide the British society into the privileged class and the British underclass, and he sees it as a Venus-vs.-Mars comparison, a gap between strata that cannot be bridged, while Miranda is able to see a potential for growth in every individual. But she fails to be ideal herself and she keeps calling Frederick sophisticated vile names (which don’t go unnoticed). 

There is a famous quote by John Dalberg-Acton that “power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely”, which can be applied to this novel. Frederick Clegg suddenly steps into fortune and he is able to fulfill his most unattainable dreams, but he isn’t the right man to handle this power. Limitless authority to determine a live of a person makes him dizzy with his own infinite superiority. He falls victim to his mean and superficial desires and dreams, and after bringing Miranda to death he steps into a vicious circle, which is bound to ruin his life. 
To wrap it up, John Fowles has managed to create a novel, which reveals stereotypical problems of the British society, such as class-division and snobbery. Probably, it serves as a warning sign to British people as such a society is doomed to rot and decay if left untreated. 
