"An experiment in love" by Hilary Mantel is worth staying awake at night absorbed in reading as it has much to say about its turbulent era, and abounds with the prospect of irreversible change. It is unhurried and slow narrative with little happening. The novel is intricately-plotted and it features numerous flashbacks to the protagonists' childhood that is why sometimes it is hard to latch on to new piece of information describing the characters from another angles. The book covers different relevant issues, for instance such topics as young girl's process of growing up, and growing into an adult life, relationships between parents and children, health problems, friendship, pregnancy and abortion. 

I reckon that one of the most challenging issues displayed in the book is abortion. When Hilary Mantel plunges down her protagonists to sad ocean of consequences of the given freedom, the book grabs you by the throat. The characters face this complicated problem and they need to make their way for a better life.

On the one hand the narration is presented in the first person. The main protagonist, Carmel McBain, tells her own story; we can see the events unfolding through her eyes only. She relates to some facts about her parents, childhood, friends, boyfriend and school years. On the other hand the book features stream of consciousness narrative as Carmel unveils her feelings and attitudes. The reader can live through the events together with the character and feel everything that the protagonist suffers. Thus we can predict different courses of action and put ourselves into Carmel's shoes and decide how to solve the problems, where to go and whom to turn to. 

In the scene where girls discover the fact that Sue is pregnant virtually all of them come to unanimous conclusion and commit her to have an abortion. Carmel is undecided whether she has to do it or not and Claire is the one person who is against this decision due to the fact that she is a strongly faithful girl. There is an astonishing difference in girls’ attitude to Sue’s unborn child: Carmel treats it as 'cells' or 'the jelly blob sealed inside Sue’s body, quivering with its own life' and in contrast to Carmel, Claire considers it as a baby. First and foremost Claire concerns that this abortion may cause psychological damage to Sue and deterioration of her mental condition. As regards other girls they ponder over material values. They believe that giving a birth to a child will ruin her life: 'she'd have to feed and clothe it, worry about it all the time, her life would be over'. 

I feel sorry for Sue. I imagine myself being in one of the C-rooms and I'm suffering and pondering together with these young women. Personally, I completely share Claire's view; she predicted this situation and was trying to prevent it. Claire turned to Carmel as she regarded her to be 'experienced' and asked her to have a conversation with Sue still they failed to convince her. 

Hilary Mantel covers several types of conflict in the book; there are person vs. circumstances, person vs. society and person vs. herself. I would like to elaborate on the conflict person vs. circumstances. At an early stage Women's Liberation sets in motion the chain of events. Girls left their paternal homes, moved to other cities and towns, contraceptive pills became available and they were allowed to have an abortion. Young women were given freedom but there was no one to explain them how to behave. The girls knew what would be if Sue gave birth to this child still they had no idea about what would be if she had an abortion. When Sue came back from the nursing home, she was tottering and white, she was so miserable and empty: 'Sue didn't move: only looked at her dully'. She was absorbed in her thoughts, I have a hunch that she regretted that she had come under girls' influence. 

There has been much debating around the issue of abortion. It is common knowledge that early abortions may profound implications for the women' health bound with some mental disorders and infertility in the future. Personally, I'm against it. I'm positive that women should give births to their children while their bodies can. If I were one of the protagonists in the book I would dissuade Sue from this terrible decision. 

The situation happened to Sue is a kind of experiment and girls can watch the events, give pieces of advice, opt for the easiest way, acknowledge the consequences so that they wouldn't have to undergo such a trials themselves. 

Making our way for a better life in this material word, where money and career are valued higher than a human life especially a life of an unborn child, we should keep firmly in mind that the choices we are making entail consequences that may result in irreversible changes in our lives. To get on in life you should not rely on reaching success and material values only. It is relevant to learn how to make sensible and sound decisions and never feel sorry for them.
