The unputdownable novel `Magpie` by Jill Dawson captivates the reader from the very first page as it’s full of wholly unanticipated twists and multi-layered plots that make it truly gripping. In fact, one can be astonished at the author’s descriptive power and general command of language. The central focus of the book is on tragedy that became a turning point in the protagonists’ lives. The tragedy which changed their whole world for good, and that was a Fire. Actually, the novel seems to be seeped with the images of fire, which follow the characters all throughout the narration. But, of course, there’s something more than a mere accident, there’s something that stands behind that word – Fire. Let us try to delve deeply into the poignancy of this central image and try to understand how it affected the lives of all the characters of the novel.

Firstly, we should try to identify what is a Fire itself? It’s a state of burning, which takes up everything on its way, swallowing it in pernicious flames, destroying and turning everything into ashes, without any chance of revival, of ever being it alive.

That’s exactly what literally happened to the protagonist of the novel, a wiry, boyish girl called Lily. All her belongings, her past and present, her precious little things, that she had been collecting for many years, all that faded away in one infinitesimal moment. She was at her wits end, in a half-dead stupor, completely dumbfounded. That was such a challenge for her to pluck up the nerve to go up. The Fire took away all her belongings for good, but at the same time it paved the way for a new start. Everything was turned upside down, that prompted her to start from scratch, to leave all her longings and frustrations behind, getting down to a completely new life. The life that firstly seemed to be so smoky and vague, but still her own life, without unbearable pressure from her preoccupied parents.  

It took her quite a lot of time before she got used to her new role of a single parent. In fact, she became blissfully happy with this role, indulging herself negotiating many new situations by herself, enjoying that sensation of being finally free. `Here I am, far from home, and nobody really knows where I am. I can do anything I want. I can start all over. There’s no Alan, no Bob to tell me to take care, nothing to lose, nobody to please: just myself`. And the same feels her favorite book character – Thumbelina, when flying away, with the beautiful blue and white swallow that carries the tiny girl away, carries her off to a warm country and she’s so glad. 

All that happened to Lily unexpectedly, and that’s crucial about the Fire. It comes suddenly and at one fell swoop it consumes everything that was of primer importance for you, it burns it in one second. So from that very moment you can divide your life into two parts – Before and After. There’s no other part, no middle, just two of them. The whole novel can be viewed from two different perspectives – the present and the past. 

What concerns Alan, his After doesn’t seem to be so optimistic. In fact, the Fire for him wasn’t just a word, just a bunch of flames, burning everything on its way, but an obsession, that infused his life with purpose and meaning. His work as a firefighter made him feel being needed, being strong and taking control of the situation. His counselor Gaynor takes notice of that `It must be hard for you, an incident like that. A fireman. It’s supposed to be your job, isn’t it, saving people? It must be very painful when it doesn’t work out`. And so it does. Ironically, the meaning of his existence shuttered his life into tiny little pieces. It affected him deeply, so deeply that his paths with his precious son and Lily have diverged for good. It burned his strength and faith, changing completely his attitude and perception of the world.

As one can see, the tragedy also changed his life dramatically, and who knows, maybe for the best. That was a sudden flash for them, a kind of a push, a push that was meant to spare them their hushed, excruciatingly tedious existence.

After all, were they happy Before, or was it just the illusion of blissful happiness, of perfect marriage? Only long after the tragedy they will realize that such a life was never on the cards. 

Thus, with this flawless grasp of both character and narration, the author manages to capture the atmosphere with all that dramatic changes in the protagonists` perceptions. Vivid images of the Fire and its correlations with characters lives convey the crucial idea of the novel – that sometimes you should lose everything in order to pick the parts of the puzzle all together and rise out of the ashes, finally feeling free and happy, finally finding the right place in this life.
