“Magpie” is a novel written by Jill Dawson. The plot deals with a story of a newly broke single mother who leaves behind provincial Yorkshire and comes to London to overcome the past and to understand herself as a person. So the reader might be puzzled by the title that seemingly has little to do with the narrative.

Studies suggest that magpies, just like crows, are intelligent and adaptable birds. And if we are to associate the protagonist of the novel, Lily, with the bird, it will be a good correlation. Lily came to a big city to start her life from scratch. At the time she was trying to fit in, she was quite resourceful for a woman who had never been independent before.  

Magpies tend to settle close to people. They are believed to be pry and nimble and appear to be always in a hurry. Their first year of life is determined by selection of a partner, when the third year is for building a proper nest. Apparently, magpies choose lifelong partners, therefore, if we draw a parallel between magpies in nature and as a symbol in the novel, we will see that Lily’s break up with her husband along with the house and possessions lost in fire come as a disaster intolerable. She felt and behaved like a dedicated and loyal magpie: marrying early, giving up her job for the sake of the family, hoping for being a one-man woman, behind a solid rock in a neat and fully-equipped house. All her hopes were ruined particularly in a blink of an eye. 

Still, people’s relationships and tempers are much deeper and more complicated due to various circumstances, thus when the trouble came, it broke Lily’s heart and made her desperate, but also shaped her as an ambiguous character, who is willing to turn everything upside down, ready to be fearful and lost, her having lots of heavy thoughts and resentment, but simultaneously beyond a shadow of a doubt or regret. 

According to various symbols and superstitions related to magpies, we can see why Jill Dawson called her novel by the name of this bird. 

Ancient folklore has that when two or more magpies fly into one’s life good fortune is coming soon. Brenda, Lily’s mother, had an obsession with superstition and was trying to influence, infect Lily with her beliefs. Though Lily didn’t want to and didn’t feel about those superstitions as painfully as her mother did, she still took notice of it, remembering what it means. In the very first chapter of the book there is a reference to a nursery rhyme ‘One for sorrow, two for joy’ and also the book finishes with the same reference putting the entire plot in the frame of a magpie superstition. In the end Lily sees one magpie, and that could mean that her difficulties are not over yet and in order to reach some happiness she will have to be patient and stop confusing real opportunities with those she doesn’t actually need, like a real magpie that catches everything that glitters.

In nature magpies are curious and have a reputation for stealing anything that they are able to carry away. There were some cases depicted in a book, where Lily reminds of a person with somewhat magpie behaviour. In the first episode she was trying to steal a toy from the store for Matthew as a birthday present, being extremely short of money, got caught, and then got away with it by pure luck. The second one is when Lily visited houses to clean them. She would eat there, rummage into the owners’ clothes and take some other items, for instance, cigarettes without a twinge of shame. 

Just like a black and white magpie, Lily is neither good nor bad, neither smart nor stupid; she is like a double-edged sword. Lily exists as an ordinary confused human, who has experienced a few losses in life, trying to find her own way of dealing with everything. She needs to be more sensitive to the others and restore control and order in her life, especially regarding relationships with her son and finding a job she would like to dedicate herself to. 

I believe that this story is based on using a magpie symbol as a very effective and easy comprehensible way of developing the protagonist’s character. Lily is like this small bird fighting for survival: she flew up, managed to make her realistic way through, a quiet little triumph over the shabby life, wretchedness, loneliness and defiance. 
