Jonathan Coe wrote a truly gripping book “What a Carve Up” that is a thoroughly enjoyable, symbolic story of the society, that has, in many ways, lost its moral compass, and for that, everyone pays a price. In terms of the plot, “What a Carve Up” is remarkable for the range and for the most memorable and amusing characters, as Coe integrated in his novel a mystery, socio-political statement and at the same time a satirical comedy. Speaking of details, Jonathan Coe has created a multiplayer plot with a poignant sense of time and place, as the book includes plenty of relevant events in the British history, such as World War II, Yuri Gagarin’s space travel, Margaret Thatcher’s tenure as the PM and Iraq invasion of Kuwait providing the framework against which the plot unfolds. The bottom line is that with a gift for the plot while reading “What a Carve Up”, the reader is encountering real people and go deep into the twist of historical events. In addition, Jonathan Coe skillfully uncovers every character, every chain of events and every aspect of this mysterious book that becomes utterly comprehensible for the reader.

Essentially, Jonathan Coe, with his descriptive power and general command of language, tells us a story of the Winshaws family, a sprawling and malevolent British family through the angle of Michael Owen, a young novelist. Michael is asked to write an objective and fair account with absolute candour of a family history about the hugely powerful family who manage to invade every initial sphere of British life.  As he researches the family, he realizes that Winshaws is the most horrible family he ever imagined− ‘The more I saw of these wretched, lying, thieving, self-advancing Winshaws, the less I liked them, and the more difficult it became for me to preserve the tone of the official historian.’ Moreover, the information narrated about each of the Winshaws in the chapters is obtained from Michael’s biographical research, which makes the reader trace Michael’s perspective on each of the character. On the other hand, we see Michael as a protagonist of this suspense-building story. However, Michael as the narrator and at the same time as a protagonist is mutually complementary figures because it explains Michael’s attitudes and feelings from different angle. Moreover, Michael is a vehicle for the Coe’s views as his characterization involves appearance, personality, social status that resonates with the reader most.

As the book progresses, the more Michael learns about Winshaws the more he starts to blame them for the failure in his own life. For this reason, the whole book grips the reader’s attention from the very first page as it seems quite entangled for a reader the key motives of Michael Owen’s fearless expedition into the darkest corners and most secret recesses of the family history. 

While the reader delves into the book, Michael forms a mental picture of a depressing person, who has a hermit slow-paced life isolated from human being, except a prehistoric TV set. He is incapable of moving ahead and to look on the bright side of the World, he utterly realizes that his books will never be in the top sale, despite the fact that he is a genius writer of proven experience and ability. That is why we could imagine that he follows only economic reasons to lay before the World this clear-eyed biography about Winshaws family and it is beneficial for him to live under commission of a wealthy heiress. Thus, though his weaknesses, imperfections, quirks and vices makes Michael Owen more clear to understand all the burdens of a middle-class person. 

 From the other side of the coin, Michael regards the Winshaws family as the byword for iniquity with their vested interest and their influence and their privilege and their stranglehold on all the centers of power. In other words, this family provokes the rising hatred for Michael Owen to all welfare people as they gained their prosperity dishonestly and laid their way by means of money with lack of any talent and moral values. And his main goal is to flesh out tangible people and to tear the mask off in the face of implacable opposition from the Winshaws family. It is obvious that Michael undergoes the conflict that is crucial to “What a Carve Up” in general.

From my angle, “What a Carve Up” is unputdownable story the society of greed.  It also has some quite moving episodes reflecting the real damage done to real peoples' lives by the heartless actions of the people in power, and the plot is pleasingly complex and clever. However, the characters represent so many true political concepts that the book remained thought-provoking. To wrap it up, Jonathan Coe wrote a splendid book which cleverly satirizes the idle selfish English ruling class and generally their inhumanity to all the others.  Personally, I enjoyed this book from the very first chapters as with its utterly idiosyncratic plot , Jonathan Coe mocks the society from various outlooks that draws me into sympathy to many of the Winshaws family.
