Every family has its own unique history, which goes through the centuries, still one pedigree can be nothing but a crashing bore, another can boast of its exceptional achievements and exciting stories. Mostly, families are proud of their history weather it is captivating or not, weather their ancestors did something worthwhile or had no contribution. Moreover, it is very relevant for each member of the family to be aware of the fact that ancestors had a superior position in the social rank. 

The Winshaws has everything. I would say, more than everything. As it might seem, all the fortune had fallen into their lap just when they wished. But the situation is rather controversial. I believe their welfare was partly a pure chance. However the biggest part of being the mighty was that they had a small hand different so called "businesses". When I started working on the book, I couldn`t imagine how many things about the family I could find. To tell you the truth, my avid readers, I was equally lyrical about writing this book and having a deep research and analysis of the Winshaw family tree. For several month, time and again, I was searching for information which could be useful for the book I was going to write. But with a new part of the family history, I had found that day, I was filled with foreboding. And when all the preliminary work has been done, well, actually, I experienced the plummeting misery. 
The Winshaw family is one of those eccentric families, which is full of mystery, and, mentioning in passing, they are criminals, whose wealth and prestige were founded upon every manner of swindling, forgery, larceny, robbery, thievery, trickery, jiggery-pokery, hanky-panky, plundering, looting, sacking, misappropriation, spoliation and embezzlement. 

Having given the situation some thoughts, I continued the book, I would say, it was a good idea, as now I understand, how people can get to the highest society stratum. 

The thing is that all the members of Winshaw family are people of tremendous personal power who use it to maintain power through torture and intimidation. Another winning feature that in such stratum there is always somebody who can choose to take under a wing and help. For example, Hilary. She grew up in a family where crimes, strange occasions were all in a day`s work. The common sense suggests, that the inner environment has a great impact on people, the same  happened with her. Moreover, Hilary was born with a silver spoon in her mouth. That left some marks on her behaviour. At the age of 15, when many girls were still playing with the dolls, she had a very thought-provoking talks with older people, who perceived her as an intelligent young lady with an incredible future. And when she is an adult, what can she do? Just preying on the weaker as her parents and relatives do. As it did Alexander Winshaw, who gobbled down a lucrative portion of the burgeoning slave trade. And guess how? Just preying on the weaker.  

Such people as in Winshaw family make quite a splash in their jobs, have strong views about the work which lies ahead, and are preoccupied with their business activities, no matter whether it is fair or not. Actually, such practice of exploiting weaker people has been existing for many years. Powerful and wealthy families, companies and governments hold tremendous sway over common grass roots. 

Unfortunately, all the Winshaws moved further up the carrier ladder by doing the elbow work. And children brought up in such atmosphere would do the same. Conventional wisdom runs that children grow into a resemblance with the parents. Moreover, I would like to mention that in such families, members always get away scot-free with their terrible crimes. And I believe that such practice of preying on the weaker would never disappear, as the mighty are always up in arms as a shrewd auld Scot.
