A symbol represents people more lively and shows the good and the bad sides of the characters, helps to create appearance of them and their way of thinking. Characterization is often listed as one of the fundamental elements of fiction and usage of symbols helps to compare some events happening in the protagonist’s life more effectively to portray the character’s growth. A symbol makes featured things or ideas more firm and particular and implies on the thought that there is some depth, something more meant in the described in names, objects, or actions.

“The Language of Water” is the story written by D.S. Mackenzie. The story takes place in the Scottish highlands. The described fly fishing is an art there and is rarely successful in still water. 
This story is based on the usage of a symbol as a way to show the strange and childish behaviour of the adult narrator and the regress of Garfield McLeod, who was the friend of the protagonist’s father. 
The first and foremost symbol throughout the whole story was a fish that the narrator was very desperate to catch for Garfield. If he did, it would mean for him that everyone should and can be forgiven and there is always a second chance for everyone despite of all the bad things the person had ever done. The protagonist would have put up with everything and wouldn’t feel as guilty as he was, because he didn’t make the photographs he promised to Garfield.

The second symbol is the condition of water in the river. This time the narrator found a place that was too flat for Garfield, but Garfield with his friend used to find wide and lovely places to catch fish. The river is the symbol of life, death, age and human relationship at all, and when the flow of water is strong it means the full extent of active life, but when it is calm for a long period of time and nothing changes on the surface, then nothing does change in person’s life and everything is coming the end.
The third symbol is two cars that Garfield owned in different periods of his life. When he was younger, he had a landrover driving fast along the rutted track and coping with “bouncing over the pitted earth, flinging up mud to either side” The landrover had the grey leather seat and metal floor. The last car was a big old estate car that had rust on the wings, rear tyres with a leak and it often could not start. These cars correlate with the alterations in the appearance and character of Garfield: “He has shrunk almost literally – from the strong commanding figure he once was to the slighter more tentative person that old age and illness have rendered him. I remember a solid, heavy-set man, bullish both in his physique and in his driving attitude to life. He was a farm manager and had large, grained farmer’s hands with thick fingers like chips of stone”.

The forth symbol that also should be given a prominence is a pigeon killed in front of the nine years old narrator. This event implied on the violence of Garfield, because he could have got rid of the bothering birds just by taking them out. Still he did in a way it was simpler for him and shocked an innocent child. 
Considering the stylistic devices, the author mainly focuses on the symbolic alliteration and consonance meant to stir certain sensations or feelings. For example, in the most emotional part of the story, where Mr McLeod killed the pigeons, alliteration on the sound [k] – conveys force, energy, resulting in suffocation, body tension, cracking effect. It is the sound of breaking small heads of the pigeons. “He overtakes the squawking, frightened, scurrying bird and kills it by stamping its head to the conctete floor… Mr McLeod comes back over and kicks the dead pigeon towards the door of the barn”. Alliteration on the sound [f] symbolizes the negative feelings, attitudes and some hopelessness. “He waded only a few feet from the bank and I knew he had no chance of a fish”.

“Chemistry” is the story written by Graham Swift also in the first person as “The Language of Water”. The story claims to be by a child, or perhaps by an adult reflecting on his childhood. The story is told quietly by someone pondering philosophical questions. For these problems, Swift finds ingenious symbols that together with the used stylistic devices become a source of emotional energy. “Chemistry” is concerned with tenderness and self-deception in family relationships and insists on the profound nature of the familiar. 

The title of the story itself is symbolic. “Chemistry” means there a lot of various and complicated things like love between the members of the family, new love of the Mother, who eventually got married not very happily, the relationship with this new man, boy’s dedication to his dad and the previous lifestyle, the Grandfather’s faithful love to the grandmother even after her death, his curiosity and solace, and certainly the science of chemistry, that turned to be the science of change. “You don’t make things in chemistry – you change them. Anything can change… People change too, don’t they?.. They change. But the elements don’t change.” People do change indeed and not always for the best, unfortunately. Like the Mother changed for the worse and betrayed them, probably, made the boat sink, made impossible to live in the house for the Grandfather and finally, probably, poisoned him, her own father.
The second symbol is the motor-launch, that was launched by Mother and Grandfather and how it all united the family before Ralph. They were even forgetting they were three generations. “Grandfather bought Mother bracelets and ear-rings. Mother called me her “little man”. We lived for each other – and for those two unfaded memories – and for a whole year…we were really quite happy. Until that day in the park when my boat, setting out across the pond towards Grandfather, sank”.

The third symbol is that to the narrator came “the ghost” of his Father, telling him “the truth”. It is hard to tell whether the truth was genuine somehow, but after that symbolic moment everything changed completely because of the mysterious Grandfather’s death.

I believe that the end of the story does not offer us any concrete resolution, the narrator just finds his children and takes them back home. Nobody knows if similar story happens again, if everything remains the same or even gets worse. 

Considering the stylistic devices, the author mainly used repeated questions in negative (“Don’t you believe me?”) in order to escalate the tension of the narration, onomatopoeic words (“dashing against”, “plunging under”) to create a special atmosphere of waiting or being tired of something, a little bit of impersonal sentences (“It seemed to me”) together with a great lot of personal sentences with pronouns like I, he, she and special vocabulary in the dialogues in order to paint Ralph as a villain and the family members as victims.

Symbol is a very effective and easy comprehensible way to develop literary characters as it might be seen in short stories “The Language of Water” written by D.S. Mackenzie and “Chemistry” written by Graham Swift. These stories bound literal level of narration with a highly symbolical one, therefore it is relevant to follow all the details thoroughly to figure out the idea and message of the story.
