 A truly gripping story A week in December by Sebastian Faulks was written in 2009. It is inhabited by a huge amount of characters, still in the author’s limelight are seven protagonists. The book tracks the lives of these seven characters during a week in December. At first the author pictures particular people, their attitudes and perception, quirks and vices. However, these lives interfere one day and a bond between them is subtly formed.

All the characters in the book are from different walks of life and social status. A Tube driver Jenny Fortune, a hedge fund manager Veals, a student who fell prey to Islamist theory, a book-reviewer – they all are London`s residents in this story. Their  life-styles, views and goals totally differ, still there is something that connects them. 

John Veals is a well-to-do person, successful in his finance career and a real pro in this sphere. His ultimate goal is to raise more and more money. Being locked in papers he can spend all the weekend alone in his office. This is a good way of escaping reality. Like bankers who had detached their activities from the real world instead of being “service” industry, Veals created his own semi-virtual world where he plays a role of career-obsessed person, fanatic about this race. 

Jenny Fortune, who had driven the Tube train and whose life was full of challenges and sadness created her small virtual world inside the real one as well as Veals. She felt excited while doing her job, as she imagined that she rattled the train through the tunnels at forty miles per hour and sometimes half expected skeletons to loom out from the wall or bats to brush her face. An alternative-reality game “Parallax” substituted her a true life. It was Jenny`s safe environment where she could build a kind of a blessed life, purchase a luxury house and furniture it in a way she liked. In the game she was given a chance to meet real people who played the same Parallax online. This was an activity that Jenny devoted her spare time to, falling into some other reality.

Sebastian Faulks features in the book how people turn away of life that calls for effort and strength. The wish to avoid contact with reality is a way of escaping it, still not the better one. All the characters do not realize that running into their self-created world they deprive themselves of most valuable thing: communication with people.
