Rudy Baylor, the protagonist of John Grisham’s Rainmaker is not just an obviously real human being, but a person who is too far from being a typical strong likeable hero. The author makes the audience like Rudy using something else. He relies on all sorts of humanizing tools, shaping a protagonist with flaws and imperfections, just like anyone. In fact, I would say that Grisham makes anyone feel less failure and even successful when compared to Rudy. 

At the first pages we learn about Rudy’s past as a child who was never really close with his parents and had little emotional and financial support from them when he really needed it. Rudy had to claw his way through college waiting tables just like many students, but without parents’ help he was just starving and scratching and proved rather adept at living on nothing. He even manages to purchase lots of things for his lover with credit cards and goes so deep in dept that he has no chance to return it. To add insult to injury, he loses the job he was going to get after graduation. While poor financial situation makes the protagonist believable enough, this is just one of the tools used to humanize him.

The audience can relate to Rudy due to all kinds of troubles he experiences throughout the novel. He gets burglarized, then loses his job, then gets evicted from the apartment he was renting. This list would be enough for a whole life, but it happens to Rudy all at once. It ruins and weakens him. The reader feels pity for the protagonist and is rooting for him. We know that Rudy deserves much more than that, he is a good and smart guy, and we believe that he’ll survive it all. 

What makes us sympathize with Rudy even more is inequality and injustice in Memphis State where he’s studying. The other students seem to have it all while Rudy is just a casualty, with no prospect of a decent job and with lots of troubles making his studies so much harder. We learn that his lover left him for a blue-blooded Ivy Leaguer. Being human, Rudy doesn’t pretend to be brave and strong. He‘s continually afraid and he’s honest about it. He’s afraid of not finding a job, he’s terrified about the looming bar exam. He identifies himself with other legal misfits who pounce on people begging to hire them and he doesn’t know anything about his future. He doesn’t know where he’s going to work and he doesn’t see himself as a good lawyer. He thinks he looks stupid and his advice is lame. Those are the classic thoughts and fears of a student.  

As we can see, Rudy finds it hard to deal with his misfortunes. Devastated and drunk he comes to his friend for help. He can’t do it on his own, he needs help – and he gets it. Rudy Baylor has all human qualities which are required to be real and rounded. There’s little he hasn’t gone through and yet he keeps sharing his story with us. This first-person narration is sincere and witty. Rudy’s remarks are full of irony which is often used to make up for lack of confidence or relieve tension.  That’s why we love him, because in spite of all his troubles he remains attractive and charismatic. We feel for him and believe that he’ll be alright. He’s going to overcome his troubles and mature into a successful lawyer. There’s just no other way. 
