From ancient times people have to cope with different conflicts. Throughout our lives we face misunderstanding with family, friends, groupmates and colleagues as well. The most involved and unstudied conflict is the self-conflict. Frequently we have to make a choice and start fighting with ourselves, trying to decide what is right and what is wrong.  

In order to study this issue more detailed we are going to refer to three contemporary British stories, which seem different at the first sight still they are quite alike. All the protagonists resist their internal conflict. Here are some suggestions concerning this point.

 The first story is “Groundlings” written by Jane Gardam. The narrative focuses on the elderly lady, called Aggie Batt, who is obsessed with theater and prefers Shakespeare’s plays. At the end of the story she dies in the queue for a ticket. Still this lady is not a protagonist. The story is told from the Innocent Eye. The narrator is a woman – a wife, a mother and a theatergoer. While she tells Aggie’s story, we learn about her life and family. Both her daughter and husband don’t understand her passion for theatre that’s why she prefers going to watch any plays to feel at home, talk to people who share her interest. Here we see the conflict between the narrator and her family. Still the main idea that throughout the story she has mentioned a lot of times that she is not a completely theatergoer, who cannot imagine her life without theatre. At the same time she finds her solvation only in theatre. We cannot exactly know how her life will change after Aggie Batt death, still we can predict that it will and probably her attitude towards the theater as well.

This story is also peppered with stylistic devices. The narration is marked by use of morphemes, such as affixes, root words and prefixes. If we analyze the lines we can mention the most frequently used prefix non-, suffixes –ly and –er and endings –s and –ing, for instance non-conversing, tramping, cases, umbrellas, bread-winners, money-grubbers, money-needers. The words with these morphemes create the effect of rhymed enumeration and point at daily routine and dead-level of the narrator’s life as well as all people in London. 

The second story is “On the Day that E.M. Forster Died” written by A. S, Byatt. As far as I’m concerned it is very similar to the previous one. It is also told from the Innocent Eye, the narrator, Mrs. Smith, also has misunderstandings with her family, and she finds her solvation not in theatre but in library, where she writes her own stories about everything, except herself. She definitely divides her life into two parts – writing novels and her family. She can’t make a choice between them and at the same time she doesn’t want to mix them up that makes her life much more sophisticated. She also meets her old friend, with whom she keeps the conversation, as she can’t do it with her family, still she finds his ideas crazy and run away from him. At the end of the story Mrs. Smith was diagnosed benign growth. And again she refused to accept it. 

The narration is marked by the author's spectacular attention to details. There is a passage in the story that is dedicated to E. M. Forster death, whom the protagonist honoured and with the help of stylistic devices we can not only learn some details about E. M. Forster but also understand the narrators personality. If we analyze the lines they are creamed with short sentences. For example E. M. Forster who wags dead. A long story. They reflect such semantic device as the stream of consciousness. This device is employed to attract readers' attention and for them to be much more involved in actions describing in the passage and also the short sentences help the readers to trace the narrators' leaps in thoughts. 

And the last, but not the least, the third story called ”Shooting Season” written by Rose Tremain, which plot is a little bit different from others. The protagonist is also a woman called Ann, who writes a novel about her brother, who was killed at school and she imagine that he is alive and Ann writes about him, but as about a girl. She and her husband Marcus divorced six years ago. Still he came to her cottage to see her and here we see two people with self-conflict. Both Ann and Marcus decided not to live together six years ago and both of them can’t let each other go. Though Marcus has a wife and doesn’t have a wish to see his and Ann’s children. But as for Ann, he can’t just leave her. Speaking about Ann her self-conflict seems much bigger than Marcus’s. From the very beginning she tries to convince herself that she doesn’t love Marcus anymore, still she hasn’t found another man and go further. They recollect their joint life that destroys both of them from within still at the end of the story Marcus leaves her and Ann’s last words are ”there’s always tomorrow”. My point is that their conflict hasn’t been decided yet, and may be it won’t.

The passage describing Marcus feelings and thoughts is crammed with pronounces such as I, you, our, my. The frequency of pronounces my, I (I’ve cried, I haven’t felt comfortable, I could touch you, my life) reveals Marcus feelings to Ann, that they are very personal and very relevant for him. Our and you (our separation, our loves, touch you, you wear) shows that he still considers Ann the part of his life and don’t want to loose her. But we shouldn’t forget that it is only his thoughts that confirm the presence of Marcus’s self-conflict once again.

So, all the protagonists of three stories have some kind of self-conflict. Speaking about struggle, I’m not sure that they try to cope with their difficulties. They just accept it and wait for some changes doing nothing for it. I don’t share their positions; all of them seem to me weak and have no strong self-esteem. I also believe that they deny the existence of self-conflict at all or probably they just suppose that everything goes how it should. I insist that in real life it won’t work though a lot of people follow the same policy as the heroes do.
