“Nice Work” by David Lodge is a fast-paced and well-plotted book with scenes of high humor and intense comedy. This novel is very engaging, rich in details and beautifully written with complex plotting and with utterly convincing characters. David Lodge is a skillful, intelligent and dynamic author with descriptive power and general command of language.

D. Lodge dots his story with true-to-life characters just to make the reader fall in love with his novel. Moreover “Nice Work” is a comedy story, which fires readers’ imagination, makes them intrigued and absorbed in the events unveiled and it grows on the readers from the very first pages. D. Lodge has a gift for plot with a flawless grasp of both character and narrative and the reader quickly feels that Victor Wilcox and Robyn Penrose (the main characters) are real people, with strengths and weaknesses.

This book is a narration due to the fact that all actions are featured in chronological order. Moreover the novel is an omniscient narrative, which can be regarded as a limited one since the readers are only aware of the things and events, which know the narrator. The readers are absorbed in the plot and begin to experience everything what is happening with the main characters, and follow the way the novel is developing.

“Nice Work” is an outstanding piece of modern British fiction, it doesn’t cover only the issue about class society and two incompatible worlds: university and industry; it’s an involving and subtle chronicle of 80s. The historical and social background of the novel is Thatcherite Britain and the author tries to describe every aspect of that period of time. The time of Margaret Thatcher is full of different events, such as strikes, shrinking British industry and the increase of entrepreneurship. The main and relevant issue, which is discussed and debated in the book, touches the role and the position of universities in the world where factories are on the top.

The bottom line is that book’s cover art and title portray the tone, genre and theme of the book. “Nice Work” is designed in green colours with two figures against a background of a factory; they stand to each other very closely and look at each other with discontent. The reader realizes that the novel is written as a kind of a social comedy as the colour of the cover is bright green and it doesn’t go with the figures that are not so remarkable. It creates an impression of the gravity of issues raised in the book and the conflict of the storyline. The design of the book is well-developed and we feel that the cover is closely correlated with the title of the book. The figure of a male and female on the cover reflects the conflict covered in the book and highlights the main idea of the story. The readers come to realize that there are some tensions between these two people, which arise on the ground of misunderstanding and engaging in deals they are not interested in.

This book treats of the clash that emerges from the shadow scheme designed between a local engineering company and the Rummidge University. A young lecturer (Robyn Penrose) is to become a shadow of a managing director (Victor Wilcox). The main protagonists have diametrically opposed characters and issues as well as industry and university represent different ideas, that’s why I hold this book covers the conflict Man vs. Society. They stand up for their own ideas and issues. Robyn is a feminist, who devoted her life to studying the role of women in the industrial novels. Victor is an industrial middle-aged manager, who doesn’t have a decent amount of time for any books.

From the beginning of this scheme Robyn and Victor face lots of challenges concerning their attitude towards life, work, industry and personal values. It confirms the fact that they come from completely different worlds, still at the same time, in course of the novel, this scheme makes Robyn and Victor understand and revalue their job and lifestyle. Victor Wilcox claims that people have to study subjects, which are more relevant than literature, something “like mechanical engineering”, in contrast to Victor, Robyn argues for an education, which is focused on “ideas and feelings”. Furthermore Victor believes that money is the most important thing in the competitive environment, whereas Robyn appreciates “nice work”, work that is “meaningful” and “rewarding”, but not in financial term. These arguments prove the idea that Victor and Robyn are from very different worlds and have diverse perspectives on life.

At the end of the day I would like to say that “Nice Work” is a very complex novel that can be regarded as a comedy of characters and as a social satire. It has a very compelling plot where the characters are brilliant and the atmosphere is involving. I am positive that the cover of the book portrays and reflects the main idea of the fiction and describes the conflict between the main protagonists, which is provoked by their different views and stands.
