The novel “Nice work” by David Lodge  is a  bright example of so called  “universities theme”, which took an essential part in the authors  works. With his very easy-to-read and flowing manner, Loge tackles such fundamental issues as:  instability among British Universities, shown by the contrast with developing industry, prompted by Tatcherite regime. Moreover, he tackles fluid status of a woman, her new role, which is now becoming more and more evident.

Speaking about this novel it is essential to highlight its background epoch, the epoch of significant changes in Britain. And here we are speaking not only about the feministic issues, which are becoming more and more evident, here we are speaking about changes in the society in general.

Female images of this novel are typical- they represent two opposite female groups, which dominated in Britain in that time.  Here we see a bright picture of feminism, shown with the help of the contrast between typical housewives and so called “women of the new generation”.  Society of permissiveness, aroused in 60’s only contributed to a new status of a woman, making her equal to a man. Now woman is able to do things, which were unbelievable before, because now it is high time to speak not only about her status, but also about her way of thinking. 

The image of the protagonist Robyn Penrose- is an exaggerated image of an emacipated woman. With a good scene of humor Loge combines everything that ran among woman of new generation and makes this image superfluous on purpose. This excessiveness helps us to understand the significance of changes and evaluate the difference between these two types of women.  Robyn seems to be very active, she takes part in almost everything she sees, she is a kind pretty copy of a man, staring from her name- to her behavior and thoughts.

 The easiest way to show the gap between two competing sites- is to outline the contrast between them. That is why the image of Marjorie is a bit exaggerated too. She isn’t attractive anymore, she is trying to hide her feelings with the help of valium, she seems to be very pathetic in her own live, absorbed in daily routine, knowing nothing about the rest of the world.   She is an antonym to vigorous Robyn with all her ideas and thoughts.

Since we are speaking about female images of 80’s, it may be silly to give an example of another quite feminine character- Victor Wilcox, because it is obvious that he is a man and stemming from this fact this character has nothing to do with female images. But I believe that this is an obvious example of change between male and female behavior pattern. Being a promising businessman with no feelings, Vic starts to act like a woman in love with all these long letters and romantic. Here again we see that the situation is a bit exaggerated, but only with the help of this contrast, I guess, we can easily outline the main idea of the book even. We realize, that sometimes  time brings changes and they are not that obvious when there is nothing to compare. But when the curtain falls, everyone seems to be vulnerable, seems to lose independence and even uniqueness. 

Female images of 80’s in this book represent changes, happened in the society of that time. The  gap between those who accepted that and  those who denied was huge and that is why too many things in this book are exaggerated.  Feminism here is kind of a game everyone tries to play, because it isn’t yet accepted and it isn’t yet something obvious. Changes can’t be  in a pale color that is why in the book every female character is very bright, sometimes above the limit.  With the help of all these and very moderate sense of humor we see the summary of changes, the summary of life.
