The novel “Magpie” was written by Jill Dawson, an English poet and writer, in 1998. This novel is about a fragile young provincial girl, named Lily, which has got sick and tired of parental guidance, and decided to move to London with her son, Mathew, to start from scratch. This novel features the protagonist’s surviving life-affirming experiences, getting affected by hostile society, and, consequently, the protagonist’s fighting against herself and society, that is this novel presents two Lily’s conflicts: Lily vs herself and Lily vs society.

Lily Waite is a dynamic character as throughout the novel her world outlook, behavior, priorities are gradually changing. In the beginning of the novel, when she came to London she had nobody to support her, she was all alone, penniless, husbandless, hopeless, and with sole responsibility for herself and her fatherless child. It is important to say as well that she didn’t put her son Mathew’s needs first as moving to London was exceptionally her dream and it was against Mathew’s will. As a result it became hard enough for them to achieve a mutual understanding. Besides, from the very beginning Lily got under pressure various life’s challenges. Firstly she encountered her son Mathew’s problems at his new school, connected to his improper behavior. Her bad mistake was that she separated her son from herself, as at the educational psychologist’s she didn’t even admit that Mathew’s problems could associate with her, her attitude towards him. What is more, being unemployed, signing on the dole, and, consequently, suffering from the lack of money and endless budgeting, by mistake she got a credit card in the name of a Ms L Stanley, failed to cope with temptation and used this credit card. In addition, her friendship with her new acquaintance, Sherry, who earned a living by being on the streets, led to that she followed her example and started to earn money by having intermittent intimacy with her neighbor Joshua. That’s the case for the initial stage of her life in London. But then something unleashed at her, she realized, that this easy way would lead her to destruction sooner or later and she started to take care of her son better. And, fortunately, one day she managed to find a job, even two jobs and started to pay more attention to her son. In a word, she tried to be a decent person, earning an honest livelihood and a  good mother, as she really wanted to please her son, throwing a party on his birthday, wishing to buy the things of his dream to him. 

I suppose that Lily is a dynamic character because the novel traces Lily’s life from her choice of an “easy” way to survive, succumbing to different temptations of a big city to becoming a mature woman, gone through life-affirming experiences and prioritized things properly. From the beginning of the novel I considered her as a magpie, drawn by glistening, thinking of only her dreams and wishes. But throughout the novel I saw that she managed to find the strength to change her life, reassess her priorities, get mature, and become independent due to life-affirming experiences and opposition to hostile environment. I believe that Lily has become different from Lily that we saw in the very beginning.

To sum it up, it seems important to point out that the bildungsroman novel “Magpie” portrays initially a weak person, who gets under influence of certain circumstances, but, finally, in spite of all her falls, capable to rise and remain standing. 
