Magpie, written by Jill Dawson, is a novel about a young woman, a single mother, who got used to running away from her problems. Since her childhood she had faced different challenges. Her parents infinitely loved her, as they had lost two babies before she was born. At first sight, there was nothing wrong, but still Lily felt differently: “As a small child living with Brenda and Bob Lily worked hard, exceptionally hard, to persuade herself that she did exist. Really exist, in her own right. Live, breathe, move, independently of her parents.” She had a feeling that she was in some kind of a personal prison. And she couldn’t express herself without thinking about her parents’ reaction. From my perspective, this feeling was chasing Lily during the whole narration, still, when she became a grown-up, she grew concerned about everyone and everything around her, not only her parents. 

When she met Alan, she was blissfully happy and she felt as if the borders that had been built by her and her parents started to collapse. Still she wasn’t thoroughly independent. That’s proved by the fact that she was completely broken and didn’t know what to do after Alan had left her and their son. What is more, the fire ruined their house and all the things that meant a lot to her. These were the two biggest impulses to start a new life and Lily took Matthew and moved to another city.

From my perspective, she did the right thing. By moving to London she escaped her parents and the things that reminded her of the past. “I’ve thrown out all the rules. I’ve proved that nothing matters at all, nothing is under our control, no matter what we do.” Besides, it was her dream to live in London and she made a big step forward. The biggest mistake she made was her huge lie about her ex-husband’s fake death. I suppose that if she had told everyone the truth, it would have been easier for her to live her new life. What is more, she lied to herself too. She told that lie so many times, that she started to believe it. Certainly, Lily understood that her ex wasn’t dead but it was easier for her to think that he hadn’t left them for another woman. Those issues, which she struggled with, like Matthew’s troubles, falling in love with Josh and the other ones, wouldn’t seem to be so inconsolable, if she didn’t have to live with this lie. And she finally realized it almost at the end of the narration, after she had gone through a lot of difficulties: “Alan is not the person she thought he was, nothing like that person. But Matthew doesn’t know that. He’s six years old. It’s Lily’s job to be the adult, not to lie Matthew.” 

I strongly believe that losing everything can be a great starting point. It may be very hard to lose something or someone, still if someone does, it doesn’t mean that her/his life is over. My point is that Lily’s fresh start began when she opened up to Josh and her son, and when she accepted her past and let it go. To come to this, she survived a lot of complications. She faced misunderstandings with her son and her parents. Still, when she said good-bye, she could draw her new story. 
