The novel is about a singular and powerful individual Lily Waite who evolves and grows. It is a novel of questions, challenges and changes, in which the energy and interest is in the details of Lily’s response to each situation. Negotiating many new situations Lily matures, becomes rounded, wise and independent. Let us consider different problems the protagonist faces in order to prove her growing up.

The story begins with Lily’s arrival to the Flanders Estate with her five-year-old son Matthew. Lily was nervous, the door of their flat gave away just after much jiggling and fussing, the hallway was dark because the electricity was off until the next day morning. When they snuggled Matthew was complaining that the flat stank. It is obvious that Lily wasn’t pleased, too but she liked the fact that finally she was in the inner city, the sound of that. She was excited because she did it, all by herself. She was ruminating about the fact that they needed a lot of things to buy, they needed to start from scratch: pillows, sheets, duvets. At once another problem came up: she was without a bean. 

 It was difficult for her to go away from parents, to put Yorkshire behind her. Brenda, her mother, was crying in the car, she even dropped and broke her compact mirror shattering into tiny silver pieces. She can be understood as she had lost two children and Lily was her precious daughter. But Lily had always dreamt about London, her fantasies of it were delicious. She pictured herself on the top desk of a double-decker bus and finally, she moved there but the reality differed from her dreams. In spite of this, she told her mom that she was charmed. 

After few days of their moving, Lily decided Matthew to enter Wishley school. At first, he was afraid to go into class and speeded down the corridor so Lily had to bolt after him and try to take a proper hold. Even after few weeks he wasn’t mixing with the other children. Moreover, he was obsessed with biting both things and people. Lily explained it was due to the fire and that it was difficult time for him because of losing the father.

Alan, Lily’s ex-husband, was obsessed with his work as a fire-fighter. Even during their first meeting his eyes were glittering when he was talking about the job. It was only a week into their marriage and Lily’s astonishment when he went to work. He didn’t fit with her version of him. Their wedding was shotgun so there were many cheeky remarks towards Lily. Then he put her in the pudding club and as a consequence, she had to drop out of the university so she remained uneducated. Then they had disagreements in Matthew’s breeding: Alan used to slap first and ask questions later. Lily felt terribly guilty tug for Matthew but she couldn’t do anything as Alan was the steady hand at the side of his flickering, dizzy wife. One day Alan told her that she never loved him, she just needed him. She was insulted and needed someone to appease her so she dialed the number of her parents without fully meaning to. She wanted Brenda to come to her but her mother answered that it was too late and dad was already in his pyjamas. Her excuse was lame but Lily didn’t want to argue. She felt flicker of annoyance but she should have known better than to phone Brenda because she had agoraphobia. 

Few days later Lily and Matthew survived the fire. She thought it was deliberate but whichever it was the smoke alarm hadn’t fired because the battery in it was finished, she just kept meaning to replace it. On that ground we can say that the fire could have been avoided if she was more responsible for her life and more attentive.

Night times were the dodgy times, she fought with sleep, she was in the fog of her own swirling thoughts about terrible freedom, exhilarating at first but later it was sickening. She needed to find a job but it was difficult as it had to fit with school hours to pick Matthew up. Besides, the images of Alan kept cropping up for her. She felt a viscous stab of anger as he left her penniless, husbandless, hopeless with sole responsibility for the fatherless child. What did she know about raising a boy, he needed a father. In addition, it wasn’t what she had imagined, she had always dreamt about a girl. Once Matthew was excluded from school for four days for biting, he repeatedly ignored reprimands from teachers so it was the tenor of things. 

It was Josh who had changed her so that she couldn’t ever get back to that tiny girl she once was. They had sex and Lily couldn’t remember ever being so close to someone else’s intimate life before. She took shine to him and it helped her to get by. Once Josh left forty pounds and Lily conjured up what she could buy but she didn’t understand why he did it. As it turned out later, the money was for sex service. 

One day after picking Matthew up, Lily and he discovered that their flat was opened, the debris of shredded wood around, they had been burgled. She expected something of her, to be the adult, the parent, to know what to do but the only idea that lodged in her was to call Josh. Later she found out that only TV was burgled and she thought it was an occupational hazard of living in London.  

As Josh couldn’t read and write letters to his wife Daphine  he asked Lily to do it. Her strongest feeling about him was of guilt, the sense of stealing him from his wife so one day when he asked to post his letter she added some phrases in it, her heartbeat tapped at her ribcage. However, later when she was thinking about the letter winging its way to Jamaica she had a desire to reach it up and tear it up because every bone in her body wanted Josh. She was dumbstruck when he told her that they should stop making love. She understood that they weren’t going to make a new family, it was never on the cards. She had nothing to talk with him about but she remembered that she had never thanked him for presents and sweets. That felt far worse than losing Alan. 
Closer to the end of the book Lily received the parcel from Alan, Jiffy bag with some unnecessary things from her past and she put the package in the highest kitchen cupboard. She couldn’t understand why Alan has sent it, maybe he wanted to clear the house, pave the way for a new start and put Matthew out of his thoughts. Whatever he wanted, she finally told Matthew about the parcel but he was unperturbed. 

The story ends with Daphine’s coming back, Lily understood that she had done right thing. Josh came to their flat with a present for Matthew, it was a fish tank that belonged to Neville, Josh’s son. 

By the end of the book Lily has absolutely changed. She became a self-confident woman, a responsible parent conscious of her freedom and the powerful individual. She has learnt to face up to the knocks and blows and understood that losing everything can be a great place to start. She has managed to cope with single parenthood, living on a council estate, signing on the dole, using someone else’s credit card, sleeping with someone fifteen years older, married and black and sometimes being paid for it. Moreover, she has learnet to do whatever comes up and go with the flow. I’m sure she will find her settled happiness and arrive in life.
