The book is a formidable example of an excellent literary work, strung through with social comment and artistic sensibility and it exposes all what is wrong with the greed decade in Britain in the 1980s. 
The title of the book «What a Carve Up» has a personal and emotional dimension that transcends mere satire. The title refers not only to the redistribution of the country’s resources to the better off during the 1980s, but also to a film of the same name featuring a night in a gothic mansion similar to Winshaw Towers.

Jonathan Coe portrays Michael Owen as one of the protagonists in the book. Michael Owen is the narrator of the alternate sections of «What a Carve Up!» and the apparent author of the parts featuring the third person narration. 

He comes from the lower-middle-class background (his father is a junior engineer and in 1961 they had a small car). In the course of the novel he changes from a hypersensitive nine-year old, whose hero in 1961 was Yuri Gagarin, into a disillusioned man with a broken marriage behind him, who leaves his Battersea flat only to buy food and do his banking, neither task involving the necessity of conversation with other people. After three years of such an existence he is so dulled by the TV and video that his own voice sounds strange to him. In addition, he sees the film «What A Carve Up!» at the age of nine, and for the next thirty years is haunted by the scene in which beautiful Shirley Eaton invites Kenneth Connor to spend a night with her, only for Connor to run away. Celibate for many years, Owen like the protagonist of the film is still suffering from a particularly British fear of love. He thinks of the world as being on another side of the TV screen: the moment where he absently points a remote control at his neighbour Fiona, as if trying to turn her off, is a case in point. He is torn between his two heroes: Yuri Gagarin, the astronaut, and Orpheus, the character who roams the subterranean consciousness. Owen defines himself as “a man of imagination rather than action: condemned, like Orpheus, to roam an underworld of fantasies, while my hero Yuri would not have hesitated to plunge boldly towards the stars”.

Due to sound economic reasons in his late 40s, Owen has to turn into a private detective as he tries to bring the secrets of the Winshaws to the fore. And this is exactly when we can see him as a narrator. The bulk of the novel concerns Owen’s investigations, spliced with chapters dedicated to each Winshaw family member. His rage at the ghastly Winshaws transgresses to life in general, to a life where the Winshaws and their likes are always the winners. But despite this anger, entirely explicable to the reader, he scarcely enters the novelistic genres where the Winshaws flourish. For much of the story they exist in different kinds of world. Moreover, Michael looks backwards whereas the Winshaws live entirely in the present.

Taking all the aforesaid into consideration, I would like to say that in the book «What A Carve Up!» we can highlight two diversified plots. First of all, Michael Owen is as a protagonist. The author sheds light on his background, family relationship. Moreover, Michael is obsessed with his past, with his childhood fixations: his worship of Gagarin, his early attempts at writing, the formative film he saw on his ninth birthday, his childhood dreams. But on the other hand, we can see Michael as a narrator. He forces to dog fearless expedition into the darkest corners and most secret recesses of the Winshaw’s history because he is financially overstretched. During his investigation he found the details of Winshaw’s glittering careers. They top all the centers of power because of their vested interests and their influence and their privilege and their stranglehold. Owen elucidates all family as wretched, lying, thieving and self-advancing. In additional, a reader may descry another plot such as the mighty preying on the weaker.
