Jonathan Coe is a prominent novelist with strong command of language skills and poignant sense of time and place. Therefore his outstanding novel ‘What a Carve Up’ is acknowledged as a gripping story that grabs the reader from the very first page. What makes the novel special is an intricate mystifying plot with a lot of subtle plot twists and a unique way of the novel’s composition coupled with the narrator’s life revelations and numerous flashbacks.

Since this is a story which closely intertwines with historical events and social aspects there are certainly some specific historical personalities and names. In other words, Jonathan Coe masterfully criticizes British politics dated back to the Conservative government of Margaret Thatcher  and the powerful group of people embodied by a one fictitious family – Winshaw family. 

This family becomes the epicenter of the events. A powerful and mighty family tree strikes roots to every aspect of social stratum. These privileged people have weighty influence in all vital fields: politics, banking area, the media sphere, agriculture, healthcare, military and art. The author shows us a family of cruel, selfish, greedy and avid people obsessed with money and their personal benefits. 

The relationships between the family members do not go beyond the ordinary ties of blood. All of them are indifferent towards others; they make even no pretense of welcoming each other and avoid every opportunity to bear with each other a little longer. If the older generation could have been interested in some kind of struggle for the place in the sun, the younger generation takes everything for granted as fame and success just falls into their lap.

If they show such behavior towards each other, it is hard to imagine how they act with grass-roots and their numerous rivals. Winshaw family members profess almost total ignorance of any subject pouring out a torrent of nonsense, although all of them have graduated from the most outstanding universities. Nevertheless, they are paid a yearly fee equivalent to six times the salary of a qualified school-teacher. Some of the Winshaw’s maintain their power through torture and intimidation and always get away scot-free with their terrible crimes. They walk over people and seem to be all-round troublemakers; still a judge would always rule in their favour no matter what they have done.

To wrap it up, this pulse-quickening novel is a great combination of such ticklish topics like power abuse, bureaucracy, bribes and murders flavored with subtle sense of humor and satire. The author raises a very crucial and up-to-date issue of these omnipresent mighty people preying on the weaker. However, he doesn’t give us the exact answer; he leaves this question opened to a reader. Thus, the question is: is this situation a vicious circle or has it a way out?
