Is our life just a matter of case or do we live through a scheme that is already written? Does probability theory work or is it already settled what will happen next? Sometimes it seems to us that those accidental cases that take place in our everyday life are senseless and devoid of any meaning. At the same time hardly had you started thinking “what if something did or did not happen” than you start realizing that there can be strong links established between them, and in the end you will see that your life is nothing but a string of coincidences.    

The paramount importance of coincidences in human lifes is perfectly drawn by Ruth Rendell in her novel “Portobello”. The book starts with a general description of the setting and then focuses on the characters. At the very beginning we have people from three independent groups completely alien to each other. The multi-layered plotting allows the author to skip from one group to another to show each character in all his complexity. The protagonists as well as less fleshed out characters are people of different walks of life, but that is the coincidence which mixes them and makes them interact.

As the reader can see from the title the setting of the novel is Portobello Road which is in London. The place happens to be the main plot-driving tool as well. Being just a part of the town the road creates favorable conditions for occurrences which then prompt characters to act. At first it seems that it was just a coincidence that Joel decided to go in that direction on the very day when he received his allowance. It is coincidence that in that particular way he faced those people and had nearly death experience and lost his money. It is coincidence then that Eugene found that money and put up a notice. It is a coincidence as well that Lance saw that notice and decided to tempt his fate. Never the less if we look at it from another angle we will see that those coincidences make the whole story. If Joel had not had the near death experience he would not have needed Ella’s help. If Eugene had not found that money or had not put up a notice Joel would not have become Ella’s patient. If Lance had not gone to Eugene’s place he would not have embarked on a burglary. If Lance had not gone to Eugene he would not have remembered him. If Eugene had not remembered Lance he would not have testified in court. If he had not testified Lance would have been sent to prison for burning the house which he did not to.

In final analysis we should highlight one more time that there is a huge amount of coincidences that happen in our life. They might seem to be irrelevant by their nature but as soon as you try to connect the dots you see that those coincidences are interrelated. They make your life go forward. That is why we should pay more attention to them.
