«Nice Work» by David J. Lodge is a fast-paced tale with touches of delightful humor and intense drama. It is well written, remarkable and truly gripping. The suspense is well-plotted by the author as it is the case for most of his books. Once I started it, it was difficult, not to say impossible, to put it down. The book is plotwise, sometimes touching, brainy and quite absorbing. I suggest with its complex plotting and utterly convincing characters every further scene fires your imagination and grabs the readers almost the first pages. The author resorts to the shifts of empathy that is managed superbly well. I have a hunch that this sickly plotted book covers a ‘modern industrial novel’ and an elaborate vision of both social and private life in the time of feminism and shows whether this epoch affects all of the life spheres or not and this makes a reader intrigued and absorbed in the events unveiled.

Moreover David J. Lodge has a gift for plot with a flawless grasp of both character and narrative and with descriptive power and general command of language. The author employs an omniscient limited position of a narrator that`s why we can easily follow the movements of the characters and in most cases we can even hear their thoughts and reasoning.

The novel depicts the epoch of Thatcherism when there was the policies of monetarism, privatization, and self-help promoted by the British Conservative stateswoman and Prime Minister Margaret, Baroness Thatcher. Additionally, Thatcherism claims to promote low inflation, the small state and free markets through tight control of the money supply, privatization, constraints on the labour movement, it pledges people free markets, financial discipline, firm control over public expenditure, tax cuts etc. And David J. Lodge helps the reader to form a mental picture of these times in a very compelling and attractive manner: it seems that the author describes signed and swivel time for UK when there was a shift from social policy towards advanced capitalism and free markets in such a hilarious and elusive way. He doesn`t critique such policy but ridicules it adding ironic touch to vivid descriptions of the main characters, and writes about everything that happens in the country in a humorous key.

Conventional wisdom runs that Margaret Thatcher increased interest rates to slow the growth of the money supply and thereby lower inflation. Furthermore she introduced cash limits on public spending, and reduced expenditure on social services such as education and housing. As a consequence her cuts on social spending and encouragement of stock markets resulted in social unrests, strikes and riots.

As regards the book itself, There are some protagonists: Victor Eugene Wilcox who is a managing director at J. Pringle & Sons Casting and General Engineering factory; Roberta Anne Penrose (Robyn) who is a lecturer in English Literature at the Rummidge University; Marjorie, Vic`s wife, she is a typical housekeeper. And I argue that only one of them (Vic) can be characterized as developing. The main actions in the novel “Nice Work” take place in an invented city Rummidge which doesn`t seem to be prosperous. The “dark” part of the city is rather repulsive. The author addresses to such adjectives as flashy, dingy, ugly and unbelievably ugly. 

As soon as Robyn has to be engaged in factory`s proceedings because of the Industry year shadow scheme, she should go to Pringle`s once a week to find out as much as possible about the factory. Robyn's mental image of a modern factory had derived mainly from TV commercials and documentaries: deftly edited footage of brightly coloured machines and smoothly moving assembly lines, manned by brisk operators in clean overalls, turning out motor cars or transistor radios to the accompaniment of Mozart on the sound track. The reality was appalling. The noise. The dirt. The mindless, repetitive work. Everything. That men should have to put up with brutalizing conditions. Women had a blurred memory of brown-skinned creatures vaguely female in shape but unsexed by their drab, greasy overalls and trousers, working alongside men in some parts of the factory. I believe that the author employs such stylistic and phonetic devices as alliteration, epithet, consonance and short uncompleted sentences to show the very condition of the factory and the working process itself as the reality is absolutely different from the situation that shows us on TV and only those people who was engaged in production do know the real condition in this field but not “the portrayed” one. 

It sounds rather convincing that Thatcherism yielded more devastating things than constructive ones. In the novel we can also see such “positive” outcomes. First and foremost it can be referred to youth unemployment and hard drinking. In can be related to one of the Vic`s sons Raymond who dropped out of the university, has no work and occupation. Usually comes home late and drunk. He despises parent`s affluence, though continuing to enjoy its comforts and conveniences such as rent-free centrally heated accommodation, constant hot water, free laundry service, use of mother's car, use of TV, video recorder, stereo system et cetera. Secondly and specifically, capitalism was all the rage that time as it is based on the private ownership of the means of production, with the goal of making a profit and there was the rise of stock markets and entrepreneurs. It is obvious that it leaves a mark on the novel. It is about Robyn`s brother Basil and his girl-friend Debbie and their sudden affluence as Debby is a foreign-exchange dealer. She gambles with a stake of ten to twenty million pounds every day of the week. And she is all about money, cars and holidays. Thirdly, in respect of university, there were different social cuts and it also was associated with the university where Robyn gave her lectures. Universities everywhere were in disarray, faced with swingeing cuts in their funding. Required to reduce their academic staff by anything up to twenty per cent, they responded by persuading as many people as possible to take early retirement and freezing all vacancies. That`s why there were people who were compelled to conform with the regulations. Still there were those who mustered the courage to make a strike. Among the strikers were not only professors but students and mere people as well. 

Further on as regards the British heavy industry in 80s, it seemed more flourishing than anything else. The economy and outward appearance of the area have changed considerably. As the seams of coal and iron were exhausted, or became unprofitable to work, mining and smelting diminished. But industries based on iron-casting, forging, engineering, all those kinds of manufacturing known generically as ‘metal-bashing’ - spread and multiplied, until their plants met and merged with the expanding industrial suburbs of Rummidge. The shrinkage of heavy industry and the development of new forms of energy have reduced the visible pollution of the air. 

At the end of the day I take it that such real time settings make the book more exciting for readers, since with laughing at the main characters, we can also at least gain some insight or authentic view about the history and culture of the country. There will always be such people as Vic who respects Margaret Thatcher since he respects everybody with guts and he believes that she got rid of overmanning, restrictive practices. And such feminists as Robyn who assures that Margaret Thatcher devastated industry round there. 
