It’s common knowledge that book cover’s design plays a crucial role. Though we have been told since childhood not to judge a book by its cover, still the cover forms the reader’s first impression of the book. When readers skim through dozens of books, only the most attractive ones will catch their eye. Eye-grabbing covers can trump even the most well-written back cover copy. The bottom line is that authors must have great covers that both represent the book’s genre and attract potential readers. The best option to succeed brilliantly in it is to choose the most suitable color scheme and layout for the book. Certain pictures, words, and images are going to elicit a specific response in most people.

Ruth Rendell, the British novelist, is known to be a master of mystery in the literary circles. In Portobello, she delivers a captivating and intricate tale that takes place in London's Portobello Road, home to one of the world's great street markets and a polyglot of nationalities where the affluent and non-affluent live side by side. The characters, representing both sides of society clash resulting in arson, murder, and redemption.

The Portobello’s book cover is designed in dark and cold colors what indicates that we are going to deal with a detective story, full of suspension and nerve-racking twists of the plot. Mystery book cover designs require a sense of intrigue and mystery while at the same time effectively summarizing the novel. Mystery novels wrap their readers around truth and lies, plots and schemes, misdirection and everything hidden. The real truth is often not found until the very end of the book.

First and foremost the Portobello’s book cover elicits a specific response in most people. This cover is able to do that with both words and images, with its careful selection of title and the background that it goes with. First, the title makes an immediate impression by focusing the enigmatic phrase Our darkest fears can hide in the brightest places which enriches our imagination. This cover is a fantastic way of luring readers in with the expectation of a truly good mystery.

Secondly and specifically the book jacket should contain an image that hints intrigues a potential reader. Psychologists believe that color can also impact shoppers and influence their feelings about products. Book covers’ designers consider the psychological responses certain colors evoke.  And in my opinion Arrow Books Editions managed to do it. The illuminated windows at the night time with a woman looking out of one of the windows, the only one room with its lights off dive us into the world of fears, secrets, challenges the people living in the well-off London area deal with. On the other hand the story has a fairly happy ending and the lights in the windows are likely to symbol the light in the end of the tunnel. 

To sum up, I would like to say that Portobello’s book cover doesn’t give anything away but tells the reader exactly what to expect the story to be about. This cover lets its readers know that the mystery that is about to unfold, is the only thing that will be taking their attention. The image, the tag line, the font and color spectrum only intensifies the curiosity and will eventually lead to the book being opened to find out exactly what is going on. I believe that the further reading will unveil all these secrets and it will turn out worth reading for many people.
