Rudy Baylor is a would-be graduate from Memphis State Law School. He isn’t a blueblood student at all and has to claw his way through college. 

Rudy`s desire to become a lawyer was irrevocably sealed when he realized that his father hated the legal profession. He was an ex-marine who believed a child should live by the crack of the whip.  The firm his father was working on made ladders. Since the ladder was quite a dangerous item the firm became a frequent target of lawsuits. Rudy`s father was spending a half of his working time on litigations and when Rudy announced he wished to be a lawyer his father was shocked and stopped talking to Rudy. After his father died by the accident Rudy`s mother left him without giving a dime on his study or life. He had to endure living in a small flat for which he couldn’t pay for a long time and creditors coupled with landlord were nipping at his heels. His one pleasure was the fact that after graduating he would get a position in Brodnax and Speers. It was a small outfit, fifteen lawyers. After getting a place in this company Rudy hoped to repay all his debts, for his flat, for his crumbling car and to earn some money for a good living. 

It wasn’t a secret that there were too many lawyers in Memphis and the legal profession was terribly overcrowded. The professors in Rudy`s college said that some of the students would kill themselves for three years, fight to pass the bar and still not be able to find employment. However, Rudy would get a position in Brodnax and Speers and didn’t really worry about it. He had been quite proud of it. Still, one day he learned that Brodnax and Speer would merge with the largest, stuffiest, most prestigious and wealthiest firm in the state – Tinley Britt. All his hopes were dashed; all his plans for the future were in vain. He couldn’t believe in it, just yesterday he had a job with a salary of thirty thousand dollars per a year and today he had nothing except a bunch of credits and debts coupled with creditors which were nipping at his heels. He had no idea what he should do next. 

After some days of emotional distress he came to Madeline Skinner who worked in The Placement Office and she knew every job opening in Memphis, and she knew precisely who would fill each position. She promised Rudy to look for a job for him but she also told him that he should scour the streets. 

It`s obvious that Rudy has to survive in this tough, hostile business surroundings and I believe he will managed to do it by finding a standing job and repaying all his debts. It is really crucial for a student to find an appropriate job after graduating and Rudy is not an exception. I tend to believe that throughout the book Rudy will find worth job or a case which changes his life. 
