The book What a Carve Up! by Jonathan Coe dazzles at every level. It is utterly gripping and involving. The twisted and intricate plot makes the book an unputdownable read. 

One of the most unusual features of this book is that the narrator Michael Owen performs the part of the protagonist as well. The chapters of the book are organized the way that after the Prologue which is meant to put us in the picture we read the lives of Michael and the Winshaws’ in turn. It is like we plunge into Michael’s life and get some vital information about him or his background or some reasons and tips which will help us later to understand why the chapters of his book about the Winshaw family are written that very way they are written. And then we plunge into these chapters, for example – Hilary, and we see her life and all her deeds through the prism of Michael’s personal attitude towards her, though the book about the Winshaws wasn’t supposed to have a touch of his personal attitudes and views on the family members. Still it does have it, just like any other book. 

The fact that Michael Owen is both the narrator and the protagonist of the book also lets us get into the world of a writer and his problems. We can see the huge gasp between him and the family he writes about, and we can compare their lives and see how the top class may influence the low class. It is explicitly shown in the episode when Michael founds out that one of the copies of his book was stolen and then he finds himself being followed. 

Being both the narrator and the protagonist also enables the author to juggle the first person narrative and the third person narrative throughout the book. Reading the chapters about Michael’s life we seem to get more involved in the events, although we still cannot change them. The first person narrative makes us sympathize with the narrator who is the protagonist in these chapters as well. On the contrary, when reading the chapters about the Winshaws, which are written by Michael in the third person narrative, we get more distant from these people. 

I see the whole book as an endless back and forth journey through distance levels. The first level involves the author, Jonathan Coe, who wrote a book called What a Carve Up!. The second one embraces Michael Owen, his book about the Winshaw family and on the whole that part of his life which is told by Jonathan Coe. And finally the third distance level which we can reach while reading this amazing book is the stories of the family members which are told by Michael Owen in his book, about which we are told by the author Jonathan Coe. 

I believe that writing a book with such a chapter structure was a really great idea and the best way to show Michael Owen as the narrator and the protagonist of the book.
