“The Rainmaker” is a compelling novel, which can show us the ups and downs of human life. The protagonist of this novel is Rudy Baylor, the third-year-student and he is about to graduate from Memphis State Law School. The essay features the main points of humanizing the main character of the novel, particularly Rudy Baylor. I would like to outline the most significant moments in Rudy’s life and also clearly recognize how it influences the tide of life.

The first point in the issue of humanizing is childhood and relationship with relatives and its impact on life. The first chapter focuses on Rudy’s relationship with his parents. His father was against his son to be a lawyer because he became a frequent target of lawsuits, so he hate guts everything which was associated with lawyers. After Rudy’s father death, his mother remarried and Rudy ceased to mix with her. The family had an enormous influence on Rudy, that’s why he faced with difficulties in Memphis State Law School. He came from middle class but almost all his classmates were bluebloods, so it was very complicated for Rudy to survive in hostile environment.

Another point is job-hunting. Rudy secured a position with a Memphis law firm, which he then lost when the firm is bought up by another, larger firm. As one of the few members of his class without a job lined up, he was trying to find a job. Rudy also stumbled upon hostility in the field of business. Many companies did not want to deal with graduates, moreover hire them. 

Rudy faced with another one mess and unpleasant situation. It is related to his love affair with Sara. Their relationship was broken up, when Sara left him and swapped him for another man. All these problems caught him off guard and he felt despair. 

I believe that all difficulties in our life can help us to get over troubles. As for Rudy, I would like to state that he can achieve all his aims and find himself both in the profession and in life.

To sum up, we can see that the novel shows us all sides of our life and Rudy Baylor’s experience mirrors the feeling of common people. Josh Grisham was able to describe the protagonist from every quarter.
