John Fowles's 'The Collector' focuses on two contrasting personalities: Miranda Grey and Frederick Clegg. While in his mind's eye Frederick had imagined a perfectly reachable compromise between him and his victim, the outcome happened to be quite the opposite. Yet, can we really suggest with some degree of certainty that there could never have been a compromise between the two characters, or could the story have taken a different course at some point? Both Miranda and Frederick behaved inconsistently and did things they regretted later on. This allows the reader to suggest that each of the characters could just as well have chosen a different strategy. 

Undoubtedly, a compromise requires much effort and its reachability varies depending on the degree to which the two people are different from one another. As we can see from the novel, Frederick and Miranda couldn't have been more different in their statuses, their visions of life, intelligence and appearance. While Frederick comes from a humble background, Miranda is of a higher social status, and being well-educated, very pretty and approachable she has many interesting better-off friends. She can easily find an approach to any person without looking down upon them regardless of their position in the society or other differences. Frederick, on the other hand, is willing to demonstrate his contempt towards snobbism of affluent people, while he obviously envies their social status, educational background and opportunities. Unlike Miranda, he behaves and talks in an overtly pretentious way to seem more intelligent than he really is. However, that's everything he does to become a more versatile personality - he never reads or indulges in any intellectual activity. Miranda, alternatively, likes reading and writing, thinking and analyzing herself as well as other people and events. She also likes art and is an artist herself. She tries to change the world by contributing her beautiful works and improving her talent. The only way Frederick changes the world is by killing all the beauty he sees in it. His job is a mere form and his hobby is the only satisfaction he has in the world. By ruining the world's best part he makes himself seem important and powerful. He feels he is making a difference. This is not even close to Miranda's vision of life, as what she does is donating money to the underprivileged and otherwise trying to improve the world she lives in. She also tries to improve her personality, combating and amending the traits she doesn't like in herself. She realizes and analyzes her mistakes of the past as she doesn't want to make them again. Meanwhile Frederick tends to justify himself whatever happens and feels no need to change his habits and behavior. As he's growing more aware of his power, the situation just aggravates. He sees that Miranda is no better than himself and that her intelligence doesn't help her in any way, and feels superior. The overall situation seems right to him as he keeps justifying his every step and blaming everyone but himself. Miranda starts being annoying and behaving in the way that contradicts his mental image of her. He doesn't want to accept and tolerate it. 

Meanwhile, accepting each other's imperfections and different outlooks is a good way to reach a compromise. When people are trying to change the other person and pressurize them in attempts to change their mind, it will hardly lead to a compromise. In a compromise each of the partners has to give up some of their habits and convictions and try to find common ground. Neither Miranda nor Frederick were willing to get off their pinnacles thus eliminating the possibilities to compromise. Yet, Miranda pitied Frederick's ignorance and sometimes genuinely wanted to help him become a more rounded person. She's seen the world and met many interesting people, so she could introduce him to some, so that he would become a part of some social circle. When she proposed it however Frederick had already lost all trust in her because of her inconsistent behavior. 

They would have also had a chance if they had managed to find something in common. Obviously, it wasn't an easy task, but they could have tried better, if they wanted to. The problem was that they were too annoyed with each other to put more effort. Frederick felt that there was a miniscule chance Miranda would love him and besides she wasn't so nice as he had imagined. She appeared to have been no better than other girls, arrogant though. Miranda was having a hard time trying to make him trust her again after all her failed attempts to escape. Now it was too late for a compromise as Frederick had gone really wild and intoxicated with his power over her. Whatever she would have done couldn't have brought any positive outcome. So if a compromise had been possible, it must have been their objective from the very beginning. 

The problem is, however, that Miranda couldn't have foreseen such horrible consequences. Naturally, she was shocked and repelled by her tormentor and, to her credit, she behaved much wiser than any other girl would. She proved calm and self-composed and in every other way met Frederick's expectations about her uniqueness. He was glad she didn't fear him, it boosted his chances of winning her over eventually. But before long Miranda started feeling superior intellectually and demonstrated it whenever she had a chance. It was humiliating for Frederick who tried to chop her off at the knees and thus show he's the one in the position of power. If only Miranda had known how far it would have gone, if she had realized how much her every step meant, she would have been more prudent and she could have adopted a different strategy. Yet, she didn't know and there was no way of knowing what was to happen as even Frederick didn't have a plan for her future. The way Miranda behaved was inherent to her, she was just being herself, and it would be unrealistic to suggest that she could relate to Frederick, accept his reasons for her kidnapping and eventually grow to love his shallow personality. It's only towards the ending of the story that she realized she shouldn't have looked down upon other people but rather tried to help them. Until then she probably had never even met anyone like Frederick. Perhaps, if she had met him under different circumstances, in real life, she would have found it easier to be friends with him, and there could have been a compromise between the two. As his captive however it was nearly impossible for Miranda to see him otherwise than a suffocator sucking all life and energy out of her. So, with the setting remaining what it is and the two characters being themselves there could be a miniscule chance of a compromise.
