The novel “A Week In December” is inhabited by characters. Weaknesses, imperfections, quirks and vices make the characters of this book more real. And today I would like to tell you about such imperfection as Escapism.

   First of all what we mean when we say this word? I believe that Escapism is mental diversion by means of entertainment or recreation, as an "escape" from the perceived unpleasant or banal aspects of daily life. It can also be used as a term to define the actions people take to help relieve persisting feelings of depression or general sadness. 

   Several characters of this book fell victim to the Escapism. One of them is John Veals, a career-oriented man. He is obsessed with money and his ultimate goal is to earn as much as possible. He forgets about his own family and real life. Another victim is Hassan al-Rashid, who is trying to find himself in religion, still he misleading himself. 

   The main character who prefers Escapism as a life-style is Jenni Fortune. She is a young female who hail from humble background.  She has been working in the underground for three years. And I tend to believe that this work helps her escape the gloomy reality. She creates her own word while she is driving a train on the Circle and underground lines.  Her nearest and dearest are certain that while working Jenni sees only: “soothing darkness, points, a slither of crossing rails and signals that glowed like red coals”. In fact she sees the miracles of London: the corbelled brickwork though which the tunnels had been cut.  She regards it as a kind of connection with the reality.

      Books help Jenni build a new reality as well. Even when she was a young girl she was fond of reading.  At that time Jenni preferred stay home rather than going out. My point is that her own reality was crucial for her, as she was hoping to find her cup of tea in books. Having read loads of book she is capable to ruminate about philosophy and society.  Agatha Christie and Edith Wharton were among her favorite authors. I find that these authors usually create small worlds in their novels, where all people are familiar to each other. My point is that Jenni has interpreted these books incorrectly. After reading she chooses running away from the surface world to the world of underground.

      What’s more, Jenni takes part in alternative-reality games. In these games you can be in the shoes of any person you want. You can try on different lives. And it is another kind of reality, where all you dreams come true.

Finally we see that characters of this book who humbles from different background and who practice different lifestyle fell victims to the Escapism. I have a hunch that the root of the problem is that they live in a big city-London. And there is few sonny days in London and people are suffering from high level of stress. And depression and stress can provoke Escapism.
