“What a Carve Up!” is a satirical novel written by Jonathan Coe, published in the UK by Viking Press in April 1994. The novel concerns the political and social environment in Britain during the 1980s, and covers the period up to the beginning of aerial bombardment against Iraq in the first Gulf War in January 1991. It is a critique of British politics under the Conservative government of Margaret Thatcher and of the ways in which national policy was seen to be dictated by the concerns of narrow, but powerful, interest groups with influence in banking, the media, agriculture, healthcare, the arms trade and the arts. It seems that Jonathan Coe creates the fictitious Winshaw family to embody these different interests under one name and, ultimately, one roof.

The author chose one person – Michael Owen – who narrates the whole story; moreover, the narrator also appears to be the protagonist in the novel.

To start with, I'd like to point out that Michael was commisioned by flighty but wealthy Ta-bitha Winshaw to write a history of her family, a collection of the nastiest and greediest but successful individuals spawned by postwar British society. He drafts little portrayals of each Winshaw which are dotted throughout the book; each serves as  a character-profile. These profiles provided lot of information about who these people really are. They influenced every field of activities: banking, media, agriculture, arms trade, healthcare etc.The beginning of the novel focuses on the demise of Godfrey Winshaw - the only decent member of this family – while on a secret mission  in Germany in 1942 and Tabitha's conviction that their brother Lawrence was to blame.  In the prologue Michael dwells on the mysterious death of his childhood hero Yuri Gagarin in a plane crash and I have a feel that later on Gagarin will make a part of Michael's own story.

Earlier, before Michael had confined himself to his home for 2 years, he was a novelist, but he abandoned his career for he didn’t have a glittering success in the society. But then he was offered a commision to write the Winshaw family story. The Winshaws, certainly, are one of those eccentric British families with skeletons in the closet and madwomen in the attic. In the 1980s, however, they became the symbol for the worst excesses of Thatcherism - arms deals with Saddam Hussein, exploitative farming, crooked finance deals, Murdochian newspapers, killing the health service. Indeed, there seems to be no Thatcherite crime that does not have a Winshaw behind it. This is, in itself, fascinating enough, as Coe not only savages the Thatcherite legacy but he does it with great satire.

As Jonathan Coe makes a strong connection between the strange going-ons in their family and in their family home and the third-rate British film comedy “What a Carve Up”, Owen has to tie all this together, of the mysterious death of one of the family in the war, who may have been murdered by another family member, of the madwoman in the attic, Aunt Tabitha. Much of of the sexuality in this novel is insulated, dreamlike and voyeuristic. For example,  Michael Owen spends much of his time titillating over Shirley Eaton, the star of “What a Carve Up”.  However, though he became enthusiastic with Fiona, as she managed to revive him and that was the reason he started going out in the streets and enjoying the life again. He began investigating the past of Winshaws and it captivated him from the very start.

On the whole, many may not be too keen on this because of the political intrigues and socialnegotiations,  but, for the rest of us, it is a witty and brilliant carve-up. Unlike most recent British novels, it is not afraid to confront the politics of the era head-on. My stand is that "What a carve up!" is, undoubtedly, one of the best British novels of the last quarter of the century.
