“The Rainmaker” is a novel which features the image of those people who strive to arrive in life given the hostile surroundings. The author manages to hook a reader on the very first pages as once you start reading the novel you learn the details of the character’s arduous life and the way they try to cope with their predicaments.

The main character of the novel is Rudy Baylor who also plunges into the hostile reality of modern life. A young student, who has clawed his way through college finally faces a chance of working with the established firm, which promises him a steady future without lack of money. Rudy was elated at this prospect, he thought that from now he wouldn’t have to hit the streets like many his colleagues were likely to do. Unfortunately, Rudy became a victim of a modern reality, yesterday he was dreaming about his well-paid job and today he surprisingly has little economic value for the whole world. Rudy finds out that his prospective employer didn’t even care about him, Rudy was just lost in the shuffle like everyone else who are also as unnecessary as he is. Nobody has got around to call and inform about the merger of the two big law firms, nobody bothered to consider the possible ways of remedying the situation for those who were left on the sidelines. 

What should do such an outcast as Rudy Baylor? He lost his job, the bar exam is looming, there is no money left, and to make matters worse, he was given an eviction notice. There are several ways for surviving in the hostile business surrounding. 

The first one is that one should go hit the streets and knock nearly on every door of the law firms. There is no sense in trying to put out some feelers in the big established law firms as they get long on Ivy Leaguers and short on ordinary graduates. Ivy Leaguers are believed to be more sufficient for the positions, they definitely have a high level of education and more over, they’re bluebloods who have affluent families. It’s easy for the established firms to jilt common graduates leaving them jobless, pennyless and eventually hopeless in favor of the well-to-do rookies. 

Knocking on the doors is the most popular way of searching a job for the casualties. But one should know that the legal profession is terribly overcrowded and there is little chance that one firm will be ready to offer a job position. Besides, one will definitely encounter rude secretaries, bosses who will frown on the misfits, and talk with a full-blown green on their faces. This attitude is not easy to overcome especially when your hope is subsiding with every job refusal. 

The second option is to hang out a shingle, but it implies many issues with money, personnel, legal cases, renting the room and others. Given the fact that one is already scratching and starving, it will be very difficult to start one’s own business.

The next option is to spend time in court, looking for the potential clients, however you won’t be the only one who also searches for clients. Rudy has become a target of one of such lawyers, who like vultures lurk beside you and wait for a right moment to attack and bombard you with the proposals and cards. And what weighs most heavily is that the court is full of such misfortunate lawyers, it gives a hint that all of them have failed either to find a job themselves or hang out a shingle.

In the final analyses, surviving in the hostile business surroundings is definitely not easy and hardly anybody manages to come through all the obstacles on his way. The main character of the novel “The Rainmaker” has got in the depth of the hostility. He was left on the sidelines with his misfortunes without any prospect. However, I believe that Rudy will achieve a great success even after all the predicaments. 
