Every reader has his unique perception of the book, let alone the overall impression that tends to enormously diverge. The book reflects a clash between two contradictory powers: Art/Creation and Simplicity represented by Miranda and Frederick. Besides, there is another plotline that can be tracked in the book – class opposition and confrontation. Traditionally, characters evolve and grow in the book. Concerning ‘The Collector’, both characters evolve under the influence and enormous pressure of each other. 

Frederick Clegg is literally a redneck born into a humble background. He never had any maternal care, seemed not to have any friends, had no educational opportunities and never wallowed in money. The words he used in his speech were obsolete, as if he associated with the elderly only. No joy in life, except for a particular interest to butterflies, namely to collecting them. For Frederick butterflies represented natural beauty of the world and helplessness against human power. He felt like an übermensch collecting those butterflies, it seemed to him that everything was within his control and power, specifically when he won that enormous sum of money. 
Collecting drove him obsessive – he projected this tamed beauty onto a girl and he believed that she was like a butterfly, that she was submissive enough to fall in love with him. 

Frederick’s character mirrors Simplicity – he thinks that everything will fall like manna from heaven, that he controls everything and everybody should obey him (certainly, now he has the money, why should there be any obstacles on his way to a dream?). Simple as that, it would seem, when one doesn’t consider real, mean human nature. 

Miranda Grey also came from a non-noble background, didn’t have enough of maternal love and care either. Still, she had a family, friends and those precious moments of life to cherish forever. She had versatile interests, being keen on self-development and had a fine taste. Miranda was a votary of art, she saw beauty in it, and literally she lived and breathed it. She ascended from a humble background to a noble one, delving deeper in this world of beauty and fame. Now she is a real intellectual moving in the high society, being around the glitterati and nothing can weigh her down. 

Being Clegg’s captive, Miranda felt helpless at first. That idea of kidnapping was unacceptable for the code she followed. After several poorly premeditated, vain attempts to escape, she tried to get to know her kidnapper better. To her astonishment, she had never met anyone as shallow, who did not seem to have any taste at all. On the one hand, Miranda can be called a snob, but that snobbism of hers is justified – it should be embarrassing for a person not to know who Mozart is, or not to know any famous paintings or even artists, etc. 

The class clash issue is not that rare, neither in books, nor in the real world. Miranda’s views, intellectual abilities and relative exterior tranquility (regarding the fact that she was kidnapped) nearly smothered and squashed Frederick as a personality (if he ever was such). As a result, he grew more violent and remote to her; both his dream and feelings ebbed away, as the object of his affections was always hostile to him and never accepted him, only used. Checkmate to Simplicity, but Art didn’t win at all – helplessness took everything away and was the only obstacle on the way of a verdant artist to swindle Frederick and escape. 
