Jonathan Coe is the leading master of writing novels. There is a strong narrative in the book.  The book dazzles on every level. It hooks the reader from the very first page. The book has utterly convincing, sharply drawn characters, with their own weaknesses, imperfections, quirks and vices.
The book was published in the UK in April 1994. The novel concerns the political and social environment in Britain during the 1980s, and covers the period up to the beginning of aerial bombardment against Iraq in the first Gulf War in January 1991.

The author exploits the first-person narrative in some chapters to show the authenticity of the characters. Alternatively the author uses the third-person narrative to go deep into the thoughts of some of the novel’s characters and reveal their internal conflicts with themselves.
There are several main characters in the book: Michael Owen, and the Winshaw family.  In this essay, I’m going to focus on Michael Owen, as he seems to be the most idiosyncratic and controversial character of the novel.

To begin with, I’d like to somehow depict Michael. He first appeared in the third part of the prologue. In this part of the prologue, the author uses the first-person narrative, to identify the reader with the protagonist.  He (Michael) had his ninth birthday and it was a bold and far-fetched proposition to go for a swim in the middle of September. Jonathan Coe uses the description of the nature, their trip (discussion in the vehicle) to show in what environment the main character was in, the influence of it. For instance, while in the car, Grandfather was treating Dad to his facetious smile and pouring scorn on the trip.  Michael’s figure is in the center of the narrative. The events have their impact on the protagonist.  The author highlights some diversity between all family members. In many novels narrators focus on the protagonist's flaws and weaknesses. Actions of the protagonist move us most and it signals of its authenticity and we cannot remain indifferent to the main character’s life-like personality. Here the narration is rather different. Jonathan Coe attempts to create complex, well-rounded characters that can add a lot to a story; on the other hand, lots of good stories manage without them.  In other words, characters such as Grandpa make the story truly gripping and plotwise.
Indeed, there are other points that can help to establish links between the character and a nature. Irresistibly shimmering and sparkling water is associated with Michael’s being cocooned in his own happiness while accepting some inevitable events, internal need, and resignation to social code.   
The expression ‘a bolt of ice shot through me’ is used symbolically. It shows the plummeting misery of the situation as it has developed. It indicates the conflicts: Man vs. Himself, Man vs. Nature. He has to resist the hack of the nature (the cold water). The episode in the underground revealed real Michael’s attitudes toward the society. (He scorns the society, he feels uneasy, when in the underground. He runs mad on female’s babbling, and men near him.)

The author renders Michael the role of the narrator. Michael exposes the core of the Winshaw family, their very early history, when heinous crimes have begun. This family is ready to ride roughshod over other people; they will go to all lengths to amass their fortune. They don’t care about what other people think.

To conclude, it's vital to follow Michael's thoughts and flash-backs to his childhood which demonstrate his bad experience in being in a centre of the confrontation between his nearest and dearest. (He has confined himself at home, without communicating with other people).  Many Winshaws like Hilary appeared to be skilled enough to move further up the career ladder and Michael just fell victim to the great essence of the TV. It’s one of the fibers that hold the country together. It collapses class distinctions and helps create a sense of national identity but at this point Michael's life started to go rapidly downhill as he professed almost total ignorance of any subject but viewing. Finally it makes no surprise that Michael has strong views on being a writer. (I suppose he makes it to entertain himself and due to desperate need in money, he tries to accustom to society). He then takes his critical glance upon Winshaws and pays a high price for the mistake. His research becomes sporadic and desultory. Though, his book may reveal utterly convincing characters with weaknesses and imperfections, some secrets, which are hidden in the secret recesses of the heart. 
