Ruth Rendell knows how to weave a complicated story out of a few simple actions by unrelated persons. Another tale by this British master of mystery but it is really not a mystery but a novel of dark doings, obsessions (real or imagined) and colorful, complex characters.  “Portobello” is an absorbing and heart-pounding novel written by an acclaimed author Ruth Rendell. The book dazzles on every level. The book grabs you by the throat and captivates you from the very first page. It depends on a reader which part of the book touches his or her heart mostly still in my humble opinion the most touching part of the novel is its’ characters. 

It is obvious that choosing and description of the characters plays an essential role in the novel due to the variety of protagonists. We can easily study mostly all the types of characters. The author wisely describes every feature of each protagonist. Besides, a third-person narrative helps readers to get into the thoughts of the protagonists and even of some peripheral characters.  

The story takes place in London's Portobello Road, home to one of the world's great street markets and a polyglot of nationalities where the affluent and non-affluent live side by side. The characters, representing both sides of society clash resulting in arson, murder, and redemption. Weaknesses, imperfections, quirks and vices make a character more clear and interesting for readers, they humanize him.

I would like to focus on characters in greater details. It’s an open secret that a character’s name can be a marker for social class ditto in this novel. For example, Lance Platt is quite an ordinary and not memorable name, he follows the same plain lifestyle. What’s more, personality traits of the character make him utterly idiosyncratic. It is no accident that Ruth Rendell opts for specific character’s features to highlight some points of the protagonists. Not to make a character a vehicle for the author’s views, Ruth Rendell makes him passionate to feature him as a real tangible person. Here, we should mention Eugene Wren, who is obsessed with special sweet and his obsession is fundamental for his character features.

Moreover, an anti-hero still a protagonist Lance is a good man baffled by the world; this is a protagonist who draws us into sympathy despite doing things that should appall us.

To wrap it up, I have to admit that the author is gifted for characters. The novel is inhabited by characters who suffers, makes mistakes, fights against their passions and transcends themselves to do something great and it is thought-provoking to read comparing yourself with somebody as mortal as you. Ruth Rendell’s Portobello is rich in characters and is definitely a compelling character study. 
