John Grisham's novel “The Rainmaker” has been number one of the top-sellers. The book is full of suspense, narrative momentum and humor that encourage potential browsers to plunge into reading. The novel is page-turning because of its intriguing plot and humane-like characters. The novel is chiefly concerns relationships of people from different walks of life. And unpredictable actions of them become a main index of their authenticity. Another noticeable feature of the book lies in the fact that there are no characters that are known only on the surface - all the characters are rounded and dynamic.

Rudy Baylor is entirely the centre of the story.  He used to live by the crack of the whip that is why he developed an aversion to discipline.  His decision to enroll to college was irrevocably sealed, but he was clawing his way through college. He was going broke, was jilted by his beloved, became a misfit and his career was swallowed by system without so much as a light belch. Such a train of events shapes a singular and powerful individual and makes him human-like. Rudy is pathetic and encourages readers’ sympathy. What is more, a first-person narration gives readers a great opportunity to go deep into the thoughts of the protagonist. The novel features Rudy’s attitude towards odd assortment of people and perception of his own failures and misfortunes. 

Despite of the fact that all the other characters are peripheral, John Grisham has implied some tools not to make them blank and bland. The author has proved rather adept at creating rounded characters. One of them is the Rudy’s sidekick, Booker Kane. He was quite diligence in studying, family-oriented and had a fledging career. He was always ready to fill the protagonist’s ear full of advice, console and pacify him. All this traits managed to win the sympathy of readers. Booker’s wife is a full-time mum, hospitable to guests even at night and did wonders with food on a lean budget. This female personifies the patience and marital bliss. 

The faculty members of the university where Rudy was studying are also in the highlight of the book. Professor Smoot is a stuffy academic and an object of ridicule, whose face was forever fixed in a frozen scowl. Professor Leuberg also attracts attention by excelling in bad-faith cases, wearing sneakers and snatching the phone up every time it started to ring. Madeline Skinner practiced recruitment in college for a long time, being worry about every single student. She handled brilliantly her responsibilities by finding job even for those students who had humble background. These characters are involved in Rudi’s life, and all their idiosyncrasies are memorable. Their habits, traits and distinctions make readers believe that they are genuine human beings.

Other key characters are Miss Birdie and the Blacks – one of the first Rudy’s clients to practice law. Miss Birdie was a spry octogenarian, who had a net worth of at least twenty million dollars. She always laid a sappy smile upon people, fluttering, rambling on and on and used to respond with “how nice” phrase. A directly contrary character is Dot Black. She was a hostile and chain smoking woman, underprivileged, showing dismal language skills. But her training had a method to its madness – she shouldered too many problems and had dodgy times. Her son is dying and husband is mentally impaired and used to sit in the crumbling car and slug down beer. All this life-like problems indicate her strong personality and humanity.

From my viewpoint, all the characters give readers with intimate knowledge of human psychology. A reader has such a feeling that on the pages of the novel he is encountering real people, taking part in specific events, that is why reading this book is pure relish. All of the characters have their own speech markers, peculiar appearance and patterns of behavior that merges into a more elaborate form of their idiosyncrasies. This fact humanizes them and I have a positive attitude towards the characters who are packed the novel.

In the final analysis I would like to say that the tools which were implied to humanize the characters of “The Rainmaker” is credible, their traits are instant attention-getters. And this helps the novel stand out from its competition on the bookshelf. 
