The issue about the Humans Being will always concern people’s mind. As long as we live as long we seek for sophisticated answers. The stories «Groundlings», «A Shooting Season» and «On the Day that E.M. Forster Died» have one similar point – all this three stories connected with art and include the protegonist who had lost in this huge and uncomprehending world. No matter if you are a well-known writer or just an old lady, you will certainly face with trials during all your life. 

	Let me begin with a story that calls «Groundlings» by Jane Gardam. The protegonist of this narrative is an old lady who adored the theater. All her life she was trying to get to the first night of the performance. She had a strong willpower to stand in a queue all day even until the night. Her family was found of different things except the theatre. Her husband ones went with her still there was misunderstanding between them. This story has one mysterious character and her name was Aggie. The main character recalled a strange lady many times. It seems she really had some valued memories that connected with Aggie. Maybe, Aggie linked her with the past, with those bright days of protagonist’s youth. 

	In the passage «Thinking of Shakespeare and Winter’s tale I went round… She doesn’t understand» we can notice that it is crammed with different descriptions of the nature that compares with Shakespeare’s story. The flowers were just like Aggie – «short beauty». Also it is remarkable that winter from this part is a sign of the story, everything is colorless and gloomy. If we are talking about phonetic devices, there is some aspiration with letters «t» and «d» which means something hard and oppressive. Short sentences at the end give us a clue that everything will over one day. 

	The end of the story is open and gives us a chance to imagine the protagonist’s life after Aggies death. Maybe she quitted going to the theater, or maybe she just started to go to the other theaters… Everything is possible in this life.

	The next story is «On the Day that E.M. Forster Died» by A. S. Byatt that impregnated with the literature. It is about the writer Mrs. Smith who was trying to compose a long and deep novel that would not be a comedy as previous. She was in love with a writer whose name was E.M.Forest. His novels inspirited her to make some changes in her books. I tend to believe that Mrs. Smith had lost herself among those huge shelves with books. It was some kind of addiction for her. Nevertheless, Mrs. Smith was in her own imagined world, she still had a thin connection with surrounding things. 

It is clear that E.M.Forest was more than just a writer for Mrs.Smith. Perhaps, he was her ideal man. In the passage «In the interim, Mrs Smith read the newspaper placards… She honoured him» it is apparently that she does not just respect him, Mrs. Smith was despaired as her favorite man would never writing again. The author used a lot of short sentences that consider us to realize all the pain the protegonist felt. With E.M.Forests death, some piece of her soul had also died. 

There is one more issue: wherefore did the author introduce Conrad to us? Each character has his or her own place in the plot still Conrad was a very strange person in this story. He suddenly appeared and more suddenly vanished. This character remains many thoughts to ponder. And does the protagonist satisfied at the end as she gave up with idea to write a serious novel? Each reader should make a conclusion by himself. 

The last still not least is «A Shooting Season» by Rose Tremain. This story also linked to a novel and writer as the pervious one still at this time the main point of the plot is the relationship between two people who was met after years of separated life. On the one hand, Anna was a quite writer who loved her children and appreciated life. On the other hand, Marcus was a selfish person who never seriously regarded wife’s passion in writing. Perhaps, he never actually believed in her. This story shows us that parting is not always something bad. Any relationships have their own shelf life and when it is over, just release your nearest and dearest and live without any regrets. Certainly, it was uneasy for Anna to forget Marcus still she found willpower to do it. Her internal conflict which we may notice during the whole story was trying to choice the right variant.

To sum up, all that three stories have a protegonist who were trying to handle with external and internal conflicts that were surrounding them. Were these conflicts solved or not – it is up to your mind, still person should always stay a human in any life situation, no matter what.
