John Grisham portrays both Rudy Baylor and the defense attorneys as courtroom warriors lacing ethical compasses ­ some more than others. As is consistent with Grisham­s past character sketches of lawyers, most of the lawyers in The Rainmaker are portrayed as immoral, corrupt and downright dirty. The movie panders to the public's negative stereotypes of lawyers without offering any positive or meaningful insights into the legal profession. 

The lawyers in The Rainmaker conspire to steal each other­s’ cases and breach agreements. Generally speaking, they also have great difficulty keeping their clients­ confidences. Among other ethical violations, they engage in criminal wire-tapping of the opposing counsel­s telephone.

 Rudy­s illusions surrounding the noble-calling of the law are shattered when he discovers that virtually every lawyer, at some time in his or her career, violates ethical rules and norms. Sadly, Rudy­s career begins to fall off the ethical path very early in the book. He breaks various rules of ethics because everyone else is doing it, and he is persuaded that he will be competitively impaired if he does not. 
The unconventional partnership between himself and Deck is formed and operated in violation of the ethics rules. Rudy enters into contracts with clients before he is admitted to the bar, practices law without a license, assists others in the unauthorized practice of law, solicits clients improperly, and implies to the Blacks that he is able to file suit on their behalf, when, in reality, he is not. The culmination of his lawyerly misdeeds takes place in the scene where Rudy participates in the brutal murder of his married girlfriend­s violent husband, then lies to the police about it. 

Of all the lawyers in The Rainmaker, virtually none manifest any fear of sanctions for their ethical violations in any form ­ from peers, bar disciplinary boards, or judges. In their efforts to succeed and flourish, they break the rules they know will never be enforced and pay very few penalties to their colleagues or anyone else for doing so. It is in this mood that when the legal community fails to regulate attorney misconduct, Rudy’­s own individual moral sense likewise fails to rescue him. 

 ­You see Rudy, in law school they don­’t teach you what you need to know. It’­s all books and theories and these lofty notions of the practice of law as a profession, like between gentlemen, you know. It­’s an honorable calling, governed by pages of written ethics.­ Rudy challenges Deck­s assertion: ‘­What’­s wrong with ethics?’ ­ Deck replies: ‘­Oh, nothing, I guess. I mean, I believe a lawyer should fight for his client, refrain from stealing money, try not to lie, you know, the basics’.­

 Rudy’­s ethical downfall in The Rainmaker chronicles how tempted, susceptible, and prone each of us is to cut ethical corners and break rules. Depending on your point of view, either Rudy reveals himself to be corrupt under the pressure of practicing law, or the pressure of law practice corrupts him. Regardless of your perspective, Rudy slips easily into the-end-justifies-the-means mentality.

 The lesson we are charged with from The Rainmaker may be that because of the steadfastness of man­s greed, self-interest, and pride, we may not be able to change the world, but we can make things incrementally better by producing and empowering more lawyers like Rudy Baylor. Although he was ethically flawed, he was also a quick learner, skilled problem-solver, and an independent thinker who, at some point in his legal education, was exposed to the notion that there is a professional code of ethics ­ the consideration of which is a worthwhile endeavor.
