‘The Rainmaker’ by John Grisham is a magnificent and truly gripping read that captivates the reader by dramatic tension and literally grabs him/her by the throat. It may seem a little slow-paced prima facie but there is a gradual increase in tension as events start developing in further chapters. It is a meticulously researched juridical novel portraying the life of an up-and-coming lawyer Rudy whose life is juxtaposed with obstacles in life and his own visions. Grisham’s descriptive power and general command of language help depict the legal system perfectly well and sharply draw the characters by unveiling the details of their lives with absolute proficiency, which helps to create utterly convincing characters with true-to-life problems and concerns. The book features subtle plot twists along with multi-layered storyline, deals sensitively with the picture of American life and law structure, taxing family relationships and inexorable struggles. It all gives a reader a genuinely epic novel that is rich in detail and variety.

As you read, you plunge into all ins and outs of the legal profession as some murky details unfold before you. Lawyers who step into the field rather green are not known for taking the low road due to their unawareness whereas seasoned lawyers are likely to screw the clients in order to claw their way and launder much enough to make sensational career shielding behind the law and their legal status. A client’s ability to afford a good lawyer can also be regarded as a marker of one’s wealth, which provides decent grounds for the lawyer, in his turn, to make the most out of the deal since inexperienced clients seeking juridical help are hardly in the know of the law procedures and expenses related to them.

Another aspect to tackle is the downplayed rule that some lawyers abide by. It states that the law is a sort of game and studying the law is purely learning how to throw a dice, which implies a thorough examination of the tricks a person could apply to manipulate. Such approach may not always be entwined with justice or injustice – it is most possibly about how well you play the game and how well you know the ropes. Such skill may be a skill to master with years, as in any game you are into that requires all effort and wit to obtain the desired result and victory in the end.  Relying on gullibility, all means come into force despite moral values and personal attitudes. Likewise, a level-headed lawyer would not go for a case involving intimately intolerable and unacceptable aspects for the sake of one’s career, and would most likely shift the balance in another case’s favour. 

‘The Rainmaker’s protagonist story ideals in the complexity of the cases Rudy looks into. Being fresh, he incorporates emotions into the job he does, even as a paralegal, though not being overconcerned about the profit he could gain instead. He toys with the idea of the wealth his first client possesses, however, broaching the money issue several times formerly undermined his chances of getting his due amount of well-earned return. By and large, Rudy is expected to be pouncing on vulnerable loafers as the legal world exposes for him.
