Rudy Baylor was an ordinary young men from not a well-to-do family. Rudy was a teenager, when his decision to become a lawyer was irrevocably sealed, taking into account that his father hated legal profession. Rudy was clumsy, embarrased by his awkwardness, frustrated with life, horrified of puberty, about to be shipped off to a military school by his father for insubordination. His father was an ex-Marine who believed that boys had to live by the crack of the whip. Rudy had developed a quick tongue and an aversion to discipline. When his father died, his mother remerried and his step father was a simple sort, that's why they did not offer Rudy a dime of the money and he had proven rather adept at living nothing. 

	Rudy studied in Low School and it was his last year, that's why he had to spend lots of time on preparing for bar exams. Rudy would not graduate with honors, though he was somewhere in the top of half of his class. It was rather complicated for him to study well and at the same time to work. He lived in a small rented apartment and needed money to pay for it. He was always threatening eviction, as he did not have money both for living and paying for his flat on time. The legal profession was overcrowded with students, deadbeats like him, that's why it was almost unreal to find a job in a such cut-throat competition. However, one day Rudy was lucky to find a job, well-paid job, he could realize that he would be able to pay for his apertment and live with difnity without financial difficulties. Rudy was incredibly happy and even could not believe that he finally managed to find a job. But it was early to exult...

	One day Rudy came to his Law school and he was told about the merger of Brodnax and Speer and Tinley Britt. Brodnax and Speer was a small outfit, fifteen lawyers, and Rudy was the only recruit they had hired from his class. When he came to terms several months ago, there was no mention of merger plans. Tinley Britt was the lagest, stuffiest, most prestigious and wealthiest firm in the state. At last count, a hundred and twenty lawyers called it home, many were from Ivy League schools, many had federal clerkships on their pedifrees. It was powerful firm that represented rich corporations and governmental entities. Rudy could understand that this merger would tell on his career in Brodnax and Speer and he was absolutelly right. When he came to the office of B&S, he found out that he was fired. It was both funny and sad, as he did not even start working there and now he was fired. His hopes to live without financial difficulties were dashed. He had no money to pay for his flat and food. Moreover, when he came back home, the process server was waiting for him to give a summon and announced that he was evicted. Rudy was shocked, he did not know what to do. He lost his position in the company, he was evicted and he had no place to live and finally he had no money. He knew that it would be really difficult to find any job in Hampton, as this city was overcrowded with lawyers and none of his classmated managed to find a job. 

	To sum it up, I would like to express my admire to Rudy. He was young men who faced with lots of difficulties and problems. His mother left him without any financial support and he had to study, work, pay for his apartment and to contain himself. Now he was non-waged and without place of living. I hope that Rudy will be able to survive in a such difficult situation. I believe that his best friend Booker will help him to find a new workplace, as he has good contacts and will be able to put out some feelers for Rudy.
