“The Rainmaker” is the novel demystifying the inns and outs about the world of the cutthroat competition between lawyers. The competition stems from the fact that the profession is terribly overcrowded, still each year witnesses a new bunch of people who are eager to enroll the legal profession. However, this novel is also stuffed with other issues a common person faces from day to day. For instance, the issue concerning love, juggling educational and professional lives, insults from other people, shortage of money etc. these problems are obviously specified in the book, still all of them are closely related to the issue that isn’t so noticeable but which plays an essential part in all listed above problems and which is ubiquitous in many countries: this is the issue of class division.

From the very beginning of the book the protagonist Rudy Baylor is presented with numerous problems: we learn that after the period of fledgling career his father became non-waged and it prompted Rudy to work as a waiter and a pizza guy. We see that he was clawing his way through college and the news that his father fell from the ladder and died only contributed to the difficulties. However, only after entering the law school Rudy realized that he was a misfit because of his humble background and there are many evidence confirming this fact. First of all, this problem is apparent is his love affair with Sara. They were happy together until one day she dumped Rudy for an Ivy Leaguer, who was obviously a blueblood. Women are often notoriously two-faced when they meet a man from the affluent background. Secondly, people from low-income families face challenges in domestic life. Rudy was renting a two-room efficiency, his apartment was grungy and located in a decaying house and although it didn’t cost much, he was a deadbeat. Despite the fact that he had a car, it was crumbling. Moreover, he couldn’t afford eating in cafes, instead he partook of many meals from soft-drink and food dispensers. 

Rudy faced the most challenging situation when he was in search of a job. He established the links with some company but soon it was taken over by the established one and it was swallowed without so much as a light belch. That powerful company represented rich corporations and governmental entities and it got long on Ivy Leaguers and short on people from Rudy’s university. Furthermore, most of its workers had federal clerkships on their pedigrees. Consequently, after the merger this company rejected him and he had to be after a job again. The most absurd thing in this situation was that Rudy learned about the takeover from his classmates with pedigrees who didn’t miss a chance to laugh at him. Besides, these classmates had sophisticated names such as F. Franklin Donaldson the Forth, N. Elizabeth Erickson and others. 

To sum up, I’d like to highlight that “The Rainmaker” is filled with a long list of everyday problems that stem from the class the protagonist belongs to and it helps the readers to get familiar with the American class division. Despite the fact that a few people from the low class move to the better one, people who hover somewhere just above the poverty line have an incentive to keep ahead and provide good life conditions for their descendants. 
