Jill Dawson is a contemporary practicing English poet and novelist who grew up in Durham city in England. She began publishing at the age of twenty two by winning first prize in a short story competition. Nowadays the author has written seven novels, edited six anthologies of poetry and short stories, and published one poetry pamphlet. The novel “Magpie” was published in 1998 and then this novel was approved by critics. Jill Dawson has named her work with a one-word abstraction – magpie that is a clue to the best focus of the book. The title doesn’t refer to the protagonist’s name or where the novel is set. The title declares its theme, where central is Lily Wait, her experience and consciousness. Another important distinction of the novel relates to the plot and characters: the novel chiefly concerns the actions and relationships of people from different walks of life and backgrounds in London. “Magpie” is the Bildungsroman that features Lily’s development and growth towards self-fulfillment and settled happiness. The plot is about the heroine’s arrival to the inner-city penniless, husbandless, hopeless and with sole responsibility for a fatherless child and her start from scratch. The plot is packed with the girl’s longings and frustrations, her life-affirming experiences and onerous situations in the hostile environment.

The plot unveiled the conflict of Man versus Himself:  Lily’s choice of  life and her values were changing during all the narration. Lily’s conflict stemmed from after surviving a fire in her native town, where the heroine had lost all her material assets as well as moral ones. She was rehoused to London, but the place didn’t stand up to her expectations. Lily felt vexed and desperate not independent though she had a lack of parental guidance. Her life started to go downhill and this fact was triggered by hostile environment and new surroundings. Lily marveled at London lifestyle, where people were too nosy, the curtains drawn everywhere and there was a bristling energy-field around her. Lily was always steered through life by other people – at first it was her parents, then her husband – and at that moment she stayed tete-a-tete with herself, faced with the sordid domestic reality and had to negotiate many new situations. She felt giddy by her freedom. Firstly, Lily had established the link with her neighbour Sherry, who was a foil character, and the protagonist tried to mix and compare with her. Lily thought that this entitled her to have licentious lifestyle, making love with married black guy for money. Then the problems with her child’s improper behavior began, the girl felt insulted because of the quarrel with another child’s mother at school. Lily didn’t identify herself as a mother, she was close up like a mussel-shell and unskilled, dealing with her son. The unfriendly environment went pressing on her – she had nobody to mingle with and be supported, even the neighbours from the opposite flat avoided meeting with her. One day she was stolen and the police failed to help her, so it was an occupational hazard of living in London. What is more, Lily appropriated a credit card and used it for her own benefit, putting her needs first. This way Lily seemed to be a staccato, inconsistent type, who took a low road. This was an anecdote of the moral downfall. Actually this train of events led the protagonist to the bottom, the not-thinking about her actions yielded the results – Lily was caught shoplifting. This incident was a pivot point in heroine’s life, after getting off scot-free she started slowly to re-evaluate her priorities. As a result the credit card was cut up, Lily began to labour on two works earning money, to find an approach to Matthew, told him the truth about where his father was, and finally sacrificed her own bliss to Joshua’s marital one. Eventually the protagonist satisfied with her demand for independent and self-respect. She learnt that losing everything could be a great reason to pave the wave for a new start. Lily assumed new merits to chivvy herself along. 

I have a hunch that Lily and her conflict is entirely the centre of the story. I appreciate Lily’s boldness to come to a big city without a bean after having the dodgy times. Lily faced with knocks and blows, she broke down, but actually she found the strength to cope with some challenges and I really like this Lily’s character trait. Despite of this fact I don’t approve the heroine’s initial actions such as dissoluteness and theft, because if I were in Lily’s shoes I would try to save my life reference points in any situation and make up another way out. From my view Lily will continue to improve keeping her spiritual wealth and ultimately I have a positive attitude towards the protagonist. 

In the final analysis I would like to say that the protagonist of the novel is susceptible to transformations, who managed to shape up to the new environment. Beneath the fragile Lilyweight veneer there is a singular and powerful individual, who has finally become mature and had its reward. Lily is shown as a dynamic character of “Magpie” by Jill Dawson.
