“Magpie” is a novel about a singular and powerful individual, who used to be tiny little girl in her hushed existence, suffering from the lack of parental guidance. The novel traces the protagonist’s path from provincial innocence to broadening experience as she put her foot down and moved to London. 

Lily’s settlement in London is entirely the centre of the story. The whippet-thin girl had delicious expectations of London, fed by books and cobbled together with images from magazines. Unfortunately, Lily experienced a painful adjustment of her higher expectations as they were ruined at one fell swoop. Life in London turned out to be onerous, it didn’t fit with Lily’s version of it. She had to get by and, from time to time, referred to rather strange ways of earning money. 

The novel chiefly concerns the actions and relationships of different people, and a single plot unites the events and characters. The author introduced a few shallow, one-dimensional characters featured as peripheral figures. In fact, the author appeared to be pressing on the reader the significance, she gave a clue to the best focus of a novel. Both Josie and Sherry’s lifestyles were two ways of Lily’s future. What made message so compelling was the protagonist’s constant ruminating about these two peripheral figures. Lily’s choice of life was shown as a controversial idea, it gave a great opportunity to tease the reader. The author didn’t give considerable detail about what was going to happen with Lily, she left that for readers. 

Lily’s desires were reflected in Josie’s life. The lifestyle of this well-to-do woman felt like another world to Lily, which was full of light and expensive perfume. Josie lived in Victorian terraced house with big bay windows, she had two hand-knitted, bright-colored children and a man who took care of Josie’s settled happiness. When Lily was standing on the threshold of Josie’s house, she noticed that it smelled of fresh coffee, fresh paint and polished wood, unlike Lily’s own cold and distant flat with no furniture and redecoration. Josie wasn’t warming to everyone, she was careful and suspicious. What is more, despite the fact that Josie seemed to be nice person, she was reluctant to help Lily. It felt like Josie always put her family’s needs first. 

Lily Wait imagined herself living in Josie’s house, where everything was like in a dream. She explored and marveled at every room, ran a glance over everything and the words couldn’t quite get past her lips as something had unleashed in her. Lily felt a viscous stab of anger, it was obvious for her that she deserved this magnificent life too. The images of it kept cropping up for Lily and never ebb away. 

As regards another peripheral figure, Sherry, she was the opposite of Josie. This woman was conscious of her freedom and densely populated with her way of life. Both Lily and Sherry lived in the same estate, and both were husbandless, penniless, hopeless women with sole responsibility of their fatherless children. Sherry was a feckless, chit-chatty young woman, managed to become involved in almost every affair in the estate. She wasn’t doing herself any favors with being too nosy and with the way she earned money. As a mother, Sherry was supposed to have enough insight into herself and sign on a dole, take a brief stint and devote herself to daughter, but it was never on the cards for her. She had never gave herself a moment’s bother and, as a result, she exposed both her and her daughter’s life to danger. A formidable example of Sherry’s dangerous lifestyle was the incident with the man, who hit her. It was obvious that Sherry was going through money like water and was desperate for it, thus choosing inappropriate job.

There was one important distinction between Sherry and Josie. Josie was one of those women who kept her life under control and had the steady hand beside her. Concerning of Sherry, she was just fluttering around like a ghost, making wry comments and repeatedly ignoring reprimands and seemed to have no desire to smooth the things over.

The readers might want to know which way Lily would choose. This young woman used to identify herself with someone like Josie. Lily’s demand for independence and self-respect would portray her growth towards self-fulfillment and settled happiness, the one like Josie had. As regards another option, Sherry’s lifestyle would bring a dramatic fall in social status and family prospects, Lily’s life would turn into dodgy times, she would always be in the fog of her own swirling thoughts. Her parents’ questions would come in a volley, one after the other, but she would flounder for something to say about her life, as she would a shockwave of guilt and disappointment run through her. Lily was the product of, to some extent, happily married people. I believe her moral assets won’t let her life get on the wrong foot. 
