“What a Carve Up!” is a long and complex novel, a mix of family saga, a detective story, a psychological thriller and a satirical comedy by Jonathan Coe, published in April 1994. The author is the leading master of satire with descriptive power and general command of language. He shows a flawless grasp of both character and narrative. The book captives the reader from the very first page and grabs by the throat. The book is nail-biting and intricately-plotted, it has unhurried and slow pace of events. The emotional charge is compelling, suspense-building, unputdownnable and brain-teasing. “What a Carve Up!” is a book with complex plotting and utterly convincing characters. 		

The story is essentially about one very powerful family in the UK, who had a lot of influence in practically every imaginable field of social economic and political life. The main character of this book is Michael Owen. He, the protagonist and occasional narrator of “What a Carve Up!”, is a novelist and therefore is inclined to try to make events follow some plot.

	The novel starts with us attending a Winshaw family celebration, whose life and doings are accumulated and outlined by the family biographer – Michael Owen. Michael is a flighty young man, who comes from the lower-middle-class background. His father is a minor engineer and has a small hand in designing British cars, that’s why they have a small British car, which other people pour scorn on. The father is in the grip of his work, therefore Michael is thrown back to his own devices. This attitude strongly influences his future outlook. He changes from a hypersensitive boy, whose hero in 1961 was Yuri Gagarin, into a disillusioned man with a broken marriage behind him, who leaves his flat only to buy food, reluctant to face the necessity of conversing with other people. Michael is ready to give everything up to take in an entire evening’s viewing. The result is that after three years of such existence he is dulled by TV and video so that his own voice sounds strange to him. Besides, he comes to dependent so much on the virtual world that he has completely forgotten about his own image and appearance: his hair stands out desperately in need of cutting and re-styling. It is final stage of his breakdown.

The second chapter takes us to another angle to the life of the protagonist Michael Owen, and it is through his narrative that we discover the lives of the Winshaws as well as his own. Michael is a suitable writer of proven experience and ability. That’s why he gets a peculiarly generous offer to write about the Winshaws. He has to form bonds of empathy and affection with them to delve deep into their early history. Michael carries on his investigation, which become more sporadic and desultory, because the Winshaw family members hush the darkest corners and most secret recesses of the family history. The fascinating part is that the Winshaws are deeply involved in the British public life, and so Michael also tells us all about the British politics in the late 1970s and 80s.

The novel is utterly brilliant from many different aspects. It forces us to give the situation some thoughts and sets in motion a train of thought. Reading the book to a page near the middle, we know that Michael Owen is not only the protagonist but the narrator of the story. Time and again we get different inklings. “What a Carve Up!” is worth it to read it and learn all the exciting moments.
