How can a novelist create a humane character, which is seemed to be living next door? John Grisham in his novel “Rainmaker” portrays a third-year law student, who is trying to claw his through university. Came from a humble background, he tries to find his place in the sun, facing the difficulties of cutthroat competition in overcrowded legal profession. 

Rudy Baylor is law student, who entered Memphis State University with the only aim to serve people, however after he had learnt the ropes of world of law, he understood that becoming a good lawyer requires much huffing and puffing, and it is not such a simple. When a child Rudy had an aversion to discipline and he had never left by the crack of whip. His father was a frequent target of lawsuit, and that’s why he didn’t stomach law firms. Though Rudy was not tough cookie, he made his choice for legal profession. From my angle, the author emphasizes an eternal fathers and sons conflict, an issue that all people face. As a student he hovered just above the poverty line, his house was a real landfill, car was crumbling, and he had to partake food from soft drink and food dispensers vending machines. It was a hard knock life for him, he was threatened eviction and he was paying off the loan for his car, his girlfriend betrayed him and he heard that even after couple of months they had broken up, she was noticed pregnant. Definitely it was a cheap shot for him. All this events shaped him as a real person, not a darling of fortune man. Rudy has to overcome himself and I tend to believe that John Grisham shows us the humanized character which is being engaged in the series of complex events and most of the related to man versus himself conflict. For instance, after Rudy was refused a job with Brodnax and Speer, he bought a pack of beer and got drunk and this is what might an average man would do to console himself. 

Rudy is not the most popular person among his course mates, because most of them came from affluent families, they treat him suspiciously. He discovered about the merging between Trent & Brent and Brodnax and Speer from his groop mate, whose name showed his blue blood roots. Unlike Rudy Donaldson the Fourth would be easily accepted to any law firm, because of his background. The author shows the reader the reality of legal profession in the USA and that’s why this novel was dedicated to American trial layers. The reality where such people as Rudy have to be scrambling around for many months in order to find a job in the ocean of cutthroats. 

To wrap it up, John Grisham shows the reader a humanized character, who might live somewhere around us, renting a two-room efficiency and regularly visiting Placement Office. Fast-paced, peppered with realistic events “The Rainmaker” mirrors the contemporary American society and those problems that it has. 
