First and foremost, I’d like to share my own experience of working with the book “What a Carve Up!” by Jonathan Coe. Actually it was a truly enjoyable experience. The format and the structure of the book seemed rather involving and exciting. I was really impressed by the plot which required an in-depth analysis of the raised issues as well as the author’s style. The novel is a perfect example of satire as the author exposes and exaggerates the vices of contemporary lifestyle.

I have a feel that “What a Carve Up!” gives prominence to gains and greed. I suppose Jonathan Coe wrote this book in response to the corruption that plagued Britain at that time. 

The author employed wretched, lying, thieving, self-advancing characters for a reason. This was regarded as a vestige of truth within the frame of that time. I do like the way the author introduced each member of the Winshaw family. I guess his hidden agenda was to show an upper class British family associated with rich, influential, and powerful personalities who managed to conjure unimaginable fortunes out of thin air.

I’d like to hit the high spots across the plot of this book in order to analyze it thoroughly. Jonathan Coe divided his novel into two parts. The first part of the book focused on the events and facts featuring the idiosyncrasies of each member of the Winshaw family. These Winshaws were portrayed in a rather unpleasant shade of greed and amorality.
The story began with Tabitha’s accusations against Lawrence of killing Godfrey who was shot down over Germany. She claimed that she had heard Lawrence speak German in his office still no one believed her. Then she was positive that the time was ripe to delve deep into the history of her family. She couldn’t tuck the information about her family away at the back of her mind for future reference any more.

Michael Owen appeared to be a suitable writer of proven experience and ability. He was offered a peculiar commission to attempt a dogged and fearless expedition into the darkest corners and most secret recesses of the family history. In fact, the Winshaws should be regarded as the epitome of al social ills. Centered around the Winshaw family, who showed the absolute worst side of British society in their ruthless dealings as they find success, the author unveiled the staggering and disintegrating British population during post-war England.

The Winshaws made their mark in every area of British life. The Winshaws who were arms dealers, bankers, art dealers, tabloid journalists represented most everything bad, selling arms to Saddam Hussein, stabbing each other in the back, leaving a shambles and squabbles all about. 

Within this frame, Hilary Winshaw was a well-known newspaper columnist. Henry Winshaw was a politician famous for his backstabbing tactics. Dorothy Winshaw was a farmer who mistreated her animals and utilized mass production in order to enhance her profit. Roddy Winshaw ran an art gallery. Thomas Winshaw worked for a bank and made enormous investments in film making, the burgeoning industry, while peeping on the closed sets. Finally, there was Mark Winshaw who sold weapons to Saddam Hussein. Mark and Henry were the winners for the greediest and most corruptive in the Winshaw Family. When Henry explained his concerns about Saddam Hussein and his use of weapons Mark replied: “Henry, what does it matter what he intends to do with them? If it starts to look as though he’s in a position to do any harm, then we find an excuse to attack him and wipe out the whole arsenal. And then we start selling again”. This proves the idea of social collapse as well.

Michael was tasked with the project still was less than successful. His narration was imbued with mystery. Tabitha hired Findlay Onyx, a private detective who tracked Michael down to help him reveal what hidden agenda the Winshaws were obsessed with. As Michael began to find out more about the Winshaws, Fiona became terminally ill and died. Around the same time Mortimer Winshaw passed away and Michael was called to the reading of his will in order to document it in his history.

The second part of the book called “An Organization of Deaths” revealed a drastic turn of events and provided the solution to many mysteries in the novel. The narration began to acquire traits of a maniac story (mass murder, terrible ways of killing). The author’s style changed drastically. A distinct whiff of scandal lingered in the air. The time was ripe to be held liable for their sins. The very atmosphere differed. The environment seemed creepy and eerie. The weather was rather symbolic. There was a thunderstorm that signified that something would imminently happen (a series of homicides). Tragedy had struck the Winshaws before but never on such a terrible scale.

At the reading of the will, Mortimer’s nearest and dearest were assembled greedy to hear what they would inherit. They proved to be the meanest, greediest, cruelest bunch of back-stabbing penny-pinching bastards. Actually, they got nothing but debts bequeathed to them by Mortimer. As the evening dragged on, a number of murders were committed: Henry was stabbed in the back; Hilary crushed under a stack of her newspaper columns; Dorothy hung on a meat hook like one of her farm animals; Thomas’ eyes were gouged out, his body wasn’t found; Mark’s arms were chopped off in a “farewell to arms” while Roddy was painted gold and suffocated. 

Then Michael found out from Tabitha about his real father, who turned out to be the co-pilot, John Farringdon, who was with Godfrey on that unfortunate flight. Michael realized why he was chosen and made a peculiarly generous offer to be the family biographer. His own life was revealed to be inextricably bound up with their activities. Michael unveiled that that there was a vestige of truth in Tabitha’s words about the fact that Lawrence was an accessory to Godfrey’s death. Then, he found Mortimer alive who admitted that he had killed off the whole younger generation of the Winshaws and didn’t feel sorry about his actions. He had to admit the fact  that they triggered social disbalance.

The novel ended with Aunt Tabitha piloting the plane with Michael in tow. He relived a dream that he had had as the plane hurtled towards the ground.

Studying this book I came to realize that the author referred to the idea of fate.  Actually, the methods of their killings were directly linked with the activities they were engaged in. For instance, Hilary was crushed with her columns overloaded with her hypocritical opinions. Henry was stabbed in the back depicting his continuous backstabbing political tactics. The author employed play on words to reveal a link between the fact that Henry was a turncoat and the way of killing. Dorothy was killed in the way she had killed many of her farm animals, having hung them on a meat hook. Thomas had his eyes gauged out for being a peeper I suppose. Roddy was smothered with gold paint, a reference to the field of his work as an art-dealer. Finally, Mark, selling arms to Iraq, had his arms chopped off and mutilated in a farewell to arms. The author used play on words and metonymy to feature a tie between the fact that with his help (arms) weapons (arms) were passed over to Iraqi military forces.

Speaking of my own impressions I’d rather look into this mass murder from two different angles. On the one hand, I take pity on all of them and feel sorry for them because against all the odds they are to be regarded human beings. They managed to reach the apogee of their careers. They earned respect. The way of killing was too harsh I believe. What struck me most was the fact that the murderer appeared to be their father and uncle and he wasn’t revolted by committing such crimes. Probably, their relationship didn’t go beyond the ordinary ties of blood. I find his actions repelling and abhorring. The only feasible excuse for his wrongdoings was the fact that the willingness to tolerate greed and live with it turned into obsession and madness. On the other hand, I tend to believe that they got what deserved. Pursuing their glittering careers they did a lot of harm to their environment. For instance, Fiona became an unfortunate victim of the new health policy. She fell the indirect victim to Henry and his political agenda.

In fact, this part of the novel unveiled all the motives of their misdemeanors and broke the deadlock. While the first part of the book just pictured the situations and didn’t provide us with any explanations. For instance, Michael had three dreams throughout his childhood that he remembered. One was him with Shirley Eaton with himself as Kenneth Connor. Another one was with a crashing plane and finally the one associated with a young Michael looking into the mirror and seeing an old face looking back at him. In the end of the novel, Michael found himself with Phoebe and saw his life like a movie. The old face that Michael saw in his dream was that of John Farringdon, the pilot and that occurrence tied him to the Winshaw family because Farringdon was Michael’s real father. And the dream with a plane crashing was his own death when he realized that lunatic Tabitha was flying the plane.

At the end of the day what I’d like to stress is that one cue the author employed in the second part of the novel is the fact that we can compare the characters of the Winshaws with “the fiendishly convoluted architecture”. It means that their lives were as complex as the corridors in the Towers. The Winshaws should be considered as the epitome of all social ills since they were involved in everything wrong with modern England: television and tabloid journalism (Hilary); Thatcher’s politics and National Health Service Reform (Henry); industrialized agriculture (Dorothy and her slaughterhouse); insider stock trading (Thomas) and arms dealing with Iraq (Mark). These characters were figures of the unethical elite and together they represented the full range of social devastation, deterioration and disintegration.
