Books shouldn't be judged by their movies

Have you ever thought, that nowadays we are judging books not by its cover, but by movie based on it? Maybe yes, but research shows that such a trend reflects a new social norm. Of course there are people, mostly older people, who still prefer books to movies, but, truth be told, they are a minority. But they argue that books shouldn’t be judged by their movies. 

There is no denying that there are movies, which benefit books and help to sell them a renew interest of audience. For example lets look at Lord of the Rings novels. They were written in the middle of 20th century by Tolkien and since then lost their popularity. But at the end of the century, they were converted into movies. And these movies received various awards. But such cases are rare. Conversely, there are a lot of examples of movies becoming a huge disappointment. Look no further that a recent 50 shades of Grey installment which was unsurprisingly busted by critics. 

Another argument is that movies often differ from books so much that you can’t even tell if movie theater tricked you into new installment of Twilight. Recent cases include The Mist, which is based on a Stephen King’s novel. But as much as it is King’s, it is also changed harshly by writers. They took a sacred book and turned it into something which just barely resembles the novel. 

Final argument states that directors tend to overestimate their ability to stretch books into several movies. Most recent example is Hobbit which is a single books of 300 pages. But Peter Jackson turned it into three movies each of 2.5 hours long. That is of course almost unprecedented and this can’t be good for paperback fans. 

Clearly, studios are learning their mistakes in 21st century and try to decrease a number of movies which just disgrace books. But they can’t cut down a number of installments because it can pose financial difficulties. It is viable for all of us to remember not to judge  books by movies. 
