Death penalty should be introduced in all US states

The issue of death penalty remains one of the important questions in the USA. Many Americans are arguing what is the most important thing: the value of human life or the fairness of justice. Many politicians debate whether the prohibition of supreme penalty in all states in the USA might bring benefits. Although some people oppose killing criminals because of its inhumanity, cruelty and uselessness, there is some evidence that death penalty has positive aspects. 


Opponents of death penalty claim that it is inhumane to let criminals die as human life is the most sacred thing in the world. However, this statement does not correspond people opinions. The society tends to believe that a person who kills other people, deprives them of the right to live and to be happy. Moreover, families of these victims will be unhappy for the rest of their life. Criminals kill somebody's children, parents, and friends. After all harm which offenders do to the society, should they still be alive? It is unfair to let delinquents live even in prison, while their victims are dead. They should be penalized in a proper way. In essence, death penalty will bring satisfaction to the society and especially to the families of killed people. In addition, with the supreme penalty the society can be content as it is sure that these criminals will not kill anybody again.

Opponents also consider that it is cruel to kill offenders as there are many other ways to punish them, for example, put them in prisons. However, such argument completely ignores the fact that maintenance in prison costs a lot of money. Unsurprisingly, the government should pay for criminals' livings. Clearly, this money is paid from the taxes of ordinary people. It means that offenders who kill people go to prisons and live there without paying anything for food or accommodation, while, on the other hand, relatives of victims have to pay taxes, a part of which is gone for the support of delinquents. 

The final argument advanced by opponents of supreme penalty is that it is useless as it does not teach criminals anything. However, the research supports exactly the opposite conclusion: according to the statistics, the rate of murders in states with the practice of death penalty is lower than in states without this measure. It means that offenders think of the punishment before committing crimes; as they know examples of supreme punishment they will think twice before acting because they take this information seriously. The fear of punishment and the possibility of loss of their life are much stronger than the desire of killing, murdering and doing other illegal things.

In conclusion, it should be fairly obvious that all arguments against supreme penalty are vague. On the contrary, people who support the introduction of death penalty in practice believe that it will help to satisfy victims’ families and to protect the society against future crimes. Furthermore, it will help to reduce maintenance costs of prisons and also delinquents will think twice before committing crimes. Therefore, in my opinion, the practice of death penalty should be implemented in all states in the USA.
