National security is more important than our privacy.

In the modern world world the question of national security firstly faced with personal privacy. With the spread of new technologies, Internet and other things that can help governors to control every single person in their countries and even in the world and at the same time with epoch of democracy people start to  more about their privacy. People do not trust governments while we are speaking about maintain the privacy, so governments now need to deal with growing frustration. That become the point of concern for the a lot of politicians, they tries to defend themselves giving different arguments illustrating that national security is more important than the privacy of a single person. 

The first argument of governors is very simple – if there is no national security, the privacy will be the last thing you will care.  In the period of Second World War, while overwhelming majority of population in every country in Europe were close to be destroyed, nobody could even imagine the thing that can be more important than National security. That shows us that people should not divide National security and their personal security. Moreover, the idea of protect privacy appeared not so long ago, while people started to fell themselves absolutely calm. After the 2001 11 they again stopped pay much attention to the privacy, the threat of global terrorism appeared. Whatever the outcome is people will not care about national security while the national security is in danger. 

The second argument is that people sometimes do not realize the importance of safety live in their country and do not understand that everything comes with its own price, even the price is your privacy. For example, everybody is content to have the program that could find a stolen phone. Clearly, they understand that this program could also serve to follow the phone owner, but they do not care. While something is beneficial for the persons and detrimental to any enemies (thief, murders, kidnappers and ext) it is natural and nobody would protest against the policy that can really help to fight with crime. But there are only one lack in understanding, the system of controlling will be work only if everybody is under control. 

Last argument of proponents of leading role of national securities is that people lost their privacy in the begging of 21 century. It should not come as a surprise, Internet provide the grand access to the information which are able reach large audience in few second, so any person who use Internet provide the basis for any types of espionage. Nowadays it is not pose difficulties to find some information about any single person in the world simply browsing the Net. So there is no really privacy is you are ready to show to whole world you dress throw the instagram or check-in in every place you have come.  Should you blame Government that tries to protect you, if you have change your privacy on “likes” in social networks by you own?

In my own opinion privacy could sometime be ignored by the issues of National security. We are all living in the world of globalization and we do not have only national security or national problems, we some of them in global.  If we are talking about world security which always are closely related to any national one, we should better forget about our privacy and care more about our future live, which national security guarantee more than someone privacy.      

To sum up, there several arguments that show that people usually do not understand the importance of national security. When Government suggests new policy of national security in should articulate the goals of this policy very strictly to help people to take it seriously and realize that is more valuable for them – live or privacy.    
