Laws that ban offensive words make the world a better place

A young black poet from Nigeria Michael Bassey Johnsom, who lives in the USA , quotes: "Majority of people prefer a good name to a bad name, but to me, anyone can call me anything as long as it is not written on my face". Actually, it is a real challenge to decide if government should prohibit the use of profanity in public places or people are at liberty to tell everything that they want. Although some of my opponents can say that all people have freedom of speech, that using offensive words is a question of education and upbringing , which people should choose independently, and, finally,  profanity is a way of self-expression. I insist on the fact that laws that ban offensive words make the world a better place.

First of all, some of my opponents can say that using friendly or offensive words is only exercising of their constitutional rights to freedom of speech. However, in essence, it only means the political right to communicate one's opinions and ideas. Initially, this right came with certain limitations on the way how to communicate. Religious legal systems, religious offense , incitement to ethnic or racial hatred laws should provide implementation of offensive principle. That's why even hard opposite opinion or negative viewpoint can be expressed politely and courteously.

Secondly, some people insist that laws that ban offensive words should only be applied to juvenile and underage people as educational measures. Refuting this opinion, I would like to remind that not only laws and restrictions can properly educate and form young people, but the behavior of the authorities including older people often determines the behavioral style of youngers, exactly it can cause the potential harm for them or create environment conducive to kindness and friendliness. 

Thirdly, there is an opinion that offensive words are a way of self-expression for creative and artistic people, for example , film directors, screenwriters, poets, writers, who use sometimes profanity in order to reveal the truth of life and evils of society. But art seems to be a way to bring up and discover the best in a person instead of making him endure the extra stress of insults.

Finally, laws that prohibit using offenses can make people enjoy the privilege of being in a friendly atmosphere , it also make them control their first emissions and senses and transform them into normative vocabulary. Government control of people's words protect children from destructive and harmful influence of the worst part of society.
