Death penalty should be introduced in all US states

Death penalty has been a very complicated issue for many scientists, historians and international experts for a long period of time. Does anybody have the right to decide whether a person will continue to live or he will die. That is the question, the most intelligent people in our world cannot answer. Another large issue involved in this debate revolves around the fact that death penalty regulation can differ within one country. The example is the United States of America. In 32 states out of 50 and at the level of US federal rules death penalty is affirmatively authorized. Is it fair and should other states implement this punishment – these are the most important points of concern.

Opponents of death penalty claim that there are a lot of cases when an innocent person is executed. An outstanding feature of death penalty as a punishment is that you cannot change it. If a person is killed, no one will be able to raise him from the dead. Human fault in this case cannot take place. On the other hand, in some cases death penalty is the only type of punishment that can restore justice. Even imprisonment for the term of life may be not enough to punish a person who has commited a heinous offence.  For example, has killed a child or has carried out a terrorist act. That is why the justice of a punishment always depends on a particular situation and it does not depend on the state.

Opponents are also in favor of the opinion that death penalty is not humane. They support the idea that in each case any other punishment can be executed but not a murder. At the same time they do not pay attention to the fact that every day policemen kill people during a special-forces raid. It a part of their job and it is a part of our life. They protect people from very dangerous criminals. Death penalty can be interpreted as the same thing. By killing potentionally dangerous people who have already commited a crime government saves our life.

There is one point to be mentioned that deals directly with the United States. Without any doubts opponents of death penalty support the idea that it should be prohibited in all states of the USA or nowhere. It is not fair that in one country there are different rules concerning one issue. Nevertheless, people should not forget that this law is in force at the federal level and may be implemented in case of necessity.

To sum up, I do not have the right to charge whether death penalty should be implemented in all states of the USA. It is a sensitive topic. But in any case the decision should be first of all fair and just. Opponents and proponents of the death penalty agree on the fact that each verdict should be thought over and analized very attentively without any mistakes. 
