Death penalty should be introduced in all US states

The price of anything is the amount of life you exchange for it , said the man. It is fairly obvious, you will find a deep and profound sense behind the quote if you give it a thought. However, some people take it too directly. In a very straightforward way, as if they were mathematicians, they equate the price of taking a life away, which a murder actually is, with the price of giving up another life that belongs to the murder. In other words, they insist death penalty fits the crime perfectly well and find it the best answer to a homicide, which I fully disagree with. I believe that capital punishment must be repealed. 

Arguably, the main reason to resort to the death penalty is in essence rather violent and calls upon the darkest sides of human nature. The proponents of the measure consider it the only fair retribution for killing innocent people. "Nothing  personal, it`s just business". I, conversely, do not agree. Capital punishment is a major infringement on the right to life and does not differ from any other murder in this sense. Human life is a fragile and precious gift, even if it is given to a fallen person, and we are not entitled to violate the right  by repeating the executed massacre. 

Another persuasive point relative to the necessity of authorizing capital punishment did not come further towards humanity than the previous one. As they say, the fear to be put on the electrical chair is a very solid argument not to commit a murder in the first place. Truth be told, I find it very convincing as well. Nevertheless, it does not eliminate the anger and brutality inside criminals nor changes them into better individuals. In the end, the amount of evil, if we put it this way, remains the same. Is it the purpose of it all, really? 

Ultimately, the last large issue involved in the debate revolves around the relief of the pain of the victim's family and friends when they see that their loss is revenged. However, it is questionable for at least two reasons. Firstly, the grief caused by losing the beloved ones is thousands times worse than every possible revenge, including the death of their murderer, and cannot be alleviate so simply. Secondly, judicial process that precedes the amortization is much more complicated and prolongated than the others, so the relatives of the victim suffer for a longer time from all the interrogations and tribunal sessions, which does not contribute to their emotional well-being. They end up even more depressed and overwhelmed with harsh feelings.

To conclude, a lot of radical activists among republicans support capital punishment and its authorization in all American states. But, in my opinion, it must be prohibited worldwide and forever since it is cruel, pointless and unjust. 
