Death penalty should be introduced in all US states

Is it necessary to enact death penalty in all US states? This question is one of the most disputable nowadays, because people disagree on this punitive measure. Nowadays death penalty is an official punishment in 32 states that causes a lot of debates in society. The main aim to any punishment is to bring a criminal to realize his blame and to eliminate a possibility of recidivism, but is a death penalty a good method of it? 

Opponents of death penalty affirm it is incompatible with human rights and should be abolished. The right to life is one of the most basic human rights and cannot be infringed. They believe that violence is not a right decision. Moreover, they suppose, that a lot of crimes are usually done in the heat of passion when a person can`t think rationally. 

Opponents also are against death penalty, because they believe, that such punitive measure will not lead to the decreasing of level of crimes, because it depends on other factors. Moreover, they think, that government should use another way to punish criminals, for example by a life imprisonment.
As for adherents of death penalty, they believe, that it is a good way of punishment, because potential murders will think twice before to commit a crime. Moreover they assert, that it`s better for a country to invest money in public goods than to maintain long imprisonment murderers. 

As for me, I’m completely for introducing of death penalty in all states, because it will make society more secure from cruel crimes. In my opinion, a fear of death is one of the most powerful fears and that`s why a level of crimes will decrease. Also, prisons of USA are famous by violence inside of them. That`s why it`s better to execute a criminal and to avert a possibility of murders among gaol-birds.  

In conclusion, I would like to say that death penalty is an effective way of punishment and should be introduced in all states. Despite the fact that it is cruelly legal system should make all efforts to provide security in society.
