Nowadays people can hardly feel safe and be sure that they are not in danger. This question is increasingly important when it comes to students and children. Colleges and universities have always been considered as a safe place, but due to some well-known situations, they cannot be safe anymore. 

There is little wonder that heated disputes arose over the question: Should guns be permitted on college campuses or not? Some people claim that they feel compelled to keep arms, while others are strictly against guns. So the goal of this essay is to find out whether it is worth to legalize guns or not.

An annual survey conducted by “debate.org” showed that 52% of people support the idea of allowing guns on college campuses. So let us consider the arguments of supporters: they claim that if a criminal who is aware of the fact that people bear arms and can stop him, would prefer to choose another place, which is gun-free; that security is in the most cases useless, and that people need the right at least to try to defend themselves. 

If a person decided to make a senseless and pointless massacre, then he realizes he will be caught by police earlier or later, or what is worse will be killed by them right after his operation. This criminal would definitely prefer gun-free zone, but anyway he will not be able to avoid consequences of his actions, but it only means that proper trained officers have to defend students and professors, rather than letting everyone around to shoot. 

The fact that security in public institutions is useless does not mean that usual people have to perform their functions, especially when it comes to arms. We need to find the new ways: to hire professionals or to train existed staff, need to put CCTV to make people feel safe and secured. 

No doubts that people should have the right to defend themselves, but this right should come with certain limitations. Students argue that they need an environment conductive to learning and safety, and therefore they want to be at liberty to use arms. Moreover some of them are sure that crime will down. Unfortunately they do not realize that it will cause potential harm. So many people have psychological problems, that can lead to awful consequences: they will apply guns whenever it is necessary or not and students will suffer from their prejudice and thoughtless actions, especially when some of them will still stay unarmed. Even if the crime goes down, the number of victims will definitely increase.

Let me now moving on to the arguments against this legalization: suicide rates will rise, nonprofessionals will face problems of psychological choice while learning how to use arms some unforeseen contingencies may appear. 

The most scared outcome is unintentional actions: students can just play around with the weapon (that they carry legally) and as they unaware of proper way of using it they just accidentally shoot it off. Government cannot let young people use arms without special license or at least without special knowledge. If we want to make people feel safe why we then increase the probability of being shot. 

Another large issue involved in this discussion revolves around suicide rates.  According to statistical data provided by “Center for Disease Control and Prevention”, suicide is the third leading cause of death among people aged 15-24 years, and this is an age group we are deal with: among them suicide makes 20 % of all deaths per year. This number makes you feel terrified. How can government legalize guns after that? Such people will only get an easier way to carry out their plans. 

The final argument I wanted to cover is problems of psychological choices. Everyone has heard that even professionals (trained policemen) cannot make proper decisions during specific operations, they feel confused and scared, and after that they have sleep problems, cannot see things as they did before. We cannot be sure that everybody understands that. If professionals have such problems what we can say about usual people? We should keep in mind that many talk a lot and feel like heroes, but when it comes to real life, we can get nothing but awful consequences. 

In conclusion I want to say that this issue is so hotly debated and we cannot leave it out. In essence all arguments mentioned in this essay prove the fact that dormitory locations on campus should be free of guns. We have to find out new ways to protect people from cruelty: train security, help students with psychological problems, make people believe that they do not need weapon, we need to make our world better, at least do not let government legalize arms. 
