Should the death penalty in US  be abolished?

Death penalty (also called execution or capital punishment)  in the United States is a legal sentence in 32 states and the federal civilian and military legal systems. With the advent of death penalty in United States , American society was divided into two camps. First group of people claims that  people who committed serious crimes deserve the death penalty and also think that the fact of using death penalty will frighten criminals and will make the life of law-abiding citizen safer. On the other hand there is a large group of people believes that death penalty has more disadvantages than advantages.

The first argument of supporters of execution is Effect of fear. They claim that the fear of death reduce the level of crime in the country. However, statistics suggests otherwise. If we look at it we (find out) that the crime rate in states with the death penalty much higher than in other. This may be explained by the theory that a person committing a crime in the state with capital punishment has nothing to lose. 

The second argument in favor of the death penalty is the fact that there are people who deserve to die. These are people who are guilty of high crimes and  who do not fix. Even sitting in jail they commit crimes. However, there is a risk that you are executing an innocent person. The research shows that annually 4% of all executed people are innocent. Such mistakes can not be tolerated.

The last but not the least argument of death penalty supporters is irritation of taxpayers who do not want to contain criminals at their own expense. However, people do not know that the death penalty of prisoner costs much more than his life maintenance in prison.

It should be evident that the arguments in favor of death penalty are not valid .As we can see, death penalty does not reduce crime rate and the cost is higher than staying in jail. On the contrary, there are many reasons why the death penalty should be abolished eg religious reason. Finally, in my own opinion, I think that such punishment should be abolished, it is ineffective and immoral.    
