Same-sex couples should be allowed to adopt children if the child's brought up in a loving environment

According to the data of The Williams Institute there are 650,000 same-sex couples in the US and nearly 19% of them have a child under 18. This study was done in 2010 and now the number of LGBT individuals, that are going to adopt a child, is growing. Despite the upward trend the overwhelming majority of the US citizens are against the children adoption by homosexual partners. Although many people believe that such couples should be prohibited from having children, I believe that everyone must be at liberty to bring up a child.

Many people, especially proponents of the conservative views, express distrust in homosexual couples with children due to the number of reasons: it is fairly obvious for them that such people can not be good parents, let alone the fact that children should have both mother and father (also because of psychological reasons) and children will suffer in school if somebody would know about his\her “family”. This growing frustration is pointless. The statistics say that only couples with serious and established relationships are thinking about children. Do you think they can be worse parents than 16-years old heterosexual teenagers? Or can two lesbians be worse mothers than a standard family where father are always busy? And when a child will suffer: when someone is having him on at school or when his father or mother does not give him care?

Truth be told, same-sex couples can be excellent parents. First of all, it does not come as a surprise that number of domestic abuse in LGBT families is next to nothing. Among other things, the US government poses many difficulties for same-sex partners. That is why it is a kind of privilege for them to have a child and they enjoy it. Psychological experiments prove the fact that homosexual partners think over the furniture in children’s room as a woman that could not get pregnant for 10 years. Another large issue involved in this debate revolves around the human rights. Our government or anybody else can not infringe on the right to have a family. 

It is fairly that everyone should have a right to bring up children. And when a same-sex couple want to adopt a child but does not have a permission for that, the reason is not a potential harm that they can cause but the conservative views of the most people in the world.
