Sharing too much personal information on social networks is dangerous

Does any of us think about how much time do people spend on using social networking sites? Who is online days and nights? Such questions would likely interest people from the age of 12 to 50. Social networking sites is an increasingly important aspect of modern life and has dramatically changed the way people operate every day. According to the shocking statistics, this category is using social networks during all the daylong mostly while watching TV, traveling or at work, and about 80% of their free time takes chatting or sharing information. People believe that there is nothing wrong in spreading personal information as their interests, photos, videos; boasting how looks their cars or houses. However, sharing too much private information can be very risky and cause different consequences. 

Opponents believe that chatting with people at social networking sites is not only interesting, but also broad minds. Despite the fact that spending time with pleasure by telling stories from life, sharing mood or experience, nobody can feel safe while having conversation with the stranger, because one cannot be sure that the interlocutor is sexual maniac. To warn users against criminals, the Chief Prosecutor in New York, Andrew Cuomo, told that more than 3,500 perpetrators of sexual assault, registered in law enforcement, was denied access to sites Facebook and MySpace.

Opponents also suppose that sharing career experience through social networks has no disadvantages. Users tell the "stories of success" and how they achieve higher positions at work. However, you do not give a thought that you are in full view of the whole world and your shrewd competitors can use your "story of success" in personal purposes and be succeed in the branch where you have been promoted. Moreover, sharing photos from parties, where you are intoxicated, can reflect the dismissal. 

The final argument advanced by opponents of sharing personal information is that you feel confidence by showing that you are rich enough to buy a big beautiful well-equipped house and an expensive car. However, the statement is inconclusive. Showing strangers that you are in easy circumstances is silly because it increases the chance to become a thieves' victim. The most harmless that can happen with you is that you can be robbed, and the worst is you can be to be killed. Moreover, there were precedents when people announced their future vacations though personal pages, thereby this information helped  robbers to choose potential victims and the best time for the crime.

It should be evident that the arguments for harmless usage of social networking sites are not valid. On the contrary, many people registered in the social networks are under a danger every second they are sharing personal information. In our world we cannot rely on people's honesty and decency, thus we must always be on the alert.
