People should work for themselves or own a business

Is it really true that getting free of office schedules makes you a master of your own life? In one instance, working for yourself means you are not bound by anyone else’s decisions and can organize your lifestyle the way which suits you best. On the other hand, if you run yourself a business, this will  for sure entail lots of risks like personal, family-related, financial and other ones, which overnight can change your ‘perfect life’ to the opposite. Although people nowadays increasingly tend to start their own business being after financial independent, many still stay in favor of office jobs. 

The most obvious argument by the opponents of office jobs would be the limitations imposed on worker’s salaries by their employers which, in its turn, cut the number of opportunities and the privilege they could enjoy in their life. Despite this point makes certain sense, there’s inevitable disadvantage of unlimited financial power.  It may be true  that working for yourself makes you the main beneficiary getting all the fruits from your business., but it also makes you the main risk-taker. Either way, in case your business suffers a loss, the loss will be your personal. On the contrary, if you are just a part of such business, even in tough times your salary is secured by a labor contract. 

Opponents of office jobs would also claim that staff working schedule is strictly determined, hence employees must adhere to obligations, otherwise , for instance, in some companies there is deduction in payment. Another convincing point concerns that such restrictions do not leave  room for opportunities of reduction the average number of working hours in comparison with sleeping patterns or your leisure time preferences which you could invest in education, development. Conversely, many people will see a beneficial side of a daily time schedule since this helps them to discipline themselves and be more organized. 

Finally, the opponents keep saying that when you decide yourself how to live a day, you immediately get hours of free time you can dedicate to your private life. There is no denying that it can be availability of being engaged in various facets of life and of being at liberty to find work-life balance. However, there are some underestimated assumptions regarding women in terms of having a family. Truth be told,   it can require the most of attention and majority of time. In essence, it does not consist with career-oriented attitude. Business can only be efficient when it is your priority. 

It should be evident that arguments against hired labor are controversial. It is fairly obvious that you are not a master of your own life in many respects. As opposed to a widespread view, not only you do not become financially free in the long-term, but also some risks and fluctuations in the case of distress pose difficulties and show whether it is worth choosing this way at all. That being said, business is for “blessed ones” while comfort is what you need first of all. You better think twice whether you are really able to be genuine master of your own life. 
