Death penalty should be introduced in all US states

There is a famous Victor Hugo’s quote: “What says the law? You will not kill. How does it say? By killing!” Interesting remark, isn’t it? It highlights the absurdity of death penalty as the efficient way of fighting against crimes. However, there are still 32 out of 50 death penalty states in the USA.  Politicians, authorities, lawyers, human rights activists and the rest of the world have been arguing about killing or not killing criminals for years. Despite the fact a lot of people support death penalty, there is some evidence that it doesn’t serve for the benefit of society.

Firstly, proponents of death penalty claim that methods of modern crime science e.g. DNA, print screening etc can now eliminate all uncertainty related to a person’s guilt or innocence. However such argument completely ignores the simple general truth: mistakes happen nevertheless how perfect the system is. In case of mistake we can’t fix it and taken human’s life can’t be brought back. According to Death Penalty Information Center’s statistic, since 1973, over 140 people have been released from death row with evidence of their innocence. And who knows how many innocent people were executed for this period of time.

Secondly, proponents of death penalty also believe that it creates another form of crime deterrent. But in fact, spending life in prison is worse punishment and proved to be more efficient way of preventing crimes. Moreover, in prison criminal has time to think over and realize what he did, to repent, and might become better person – there is always such chance. Due to the data of the 2013 FBI Uniform Crime Report which showed that the South had the highest murder rate although it accounts for over 80% of executions. On the contrary, the Northeast, which has less than 1% of all executions, had lowest murder rate.

The final argument advanced by opponents of death penalty is that it is very expensive to keep someone in prison for life and this money can be reinvested in something useful for society. However they don’t take into account spending needed to prove guilty i.e. additional procedures, pretrial and trial costs etc. As result, financial costs to taxpayers of death penalty are several times higher than of keeping a person behind bars. According to statics of Kansas Judicial Council, defense costs for death penalty trials in Kansas averaged about $400,000 per case, compared to $100,000 per case when the death penalty was not sought.

In conclusion, death penalty turned to be inefficient and senseless. This hotly debated social issue not only sends wrong message, as Victor Hugo noticed, but also can induce fatal mistakes, which undermines the basis of democratic society. Moreover, it doesn’t prevent crimes. And finally, death penalty is a huge economic burden imposed on taxpayers. Therefore, in my opinion, the existence of death penalty in the USA should be reviewed.
