Sharing too much personal information on social networks is dangerous

Do you know how many people has their own page in one of the social networks? Truth be told, the figure is extremely high: according to the latest scientific research, over 90% of people aged below 60 has their own page.  It is fairly obvious that they provide for it a wide range of personal information. Although some people think it is absolutely safe to make great parts of their personal life public there is some evidence that it can pose  cyber and real-life threats.

There is a group of people that think that sharing a great range of personal information on social networks is safe and useful because only (definite) certain people can see this information, it helps them to collaborate with their friends and to lead a vivid social life. Privacy settings are not a point of concern for the overwhelming majority of this kind of people but according to the TMI! latest research it is absolutely necessary to monitor the privacy policy and settings every two weeks because some changes in the surrounding people and fields may occur. Moreover, although it is easier to communicate with the friends, some personal information occasionally made public during these communication can be a useful weapon by cyberballies: 88% of a certain demographic – teenagers – witnessed cruel behaviour on social network sites. Among other things, shearing personal information for some people is a compulsory condition of their everyday life – it is a proven fact that they feel psychologically uncomfortable without it. Unsurprisingly they usually reveal too much personal information that can lead to some real-life threats, for example, burglary because a person posted the dates of his or her holidays or times he or she usually away from home.   

There is a body of evidence, that sharing too much personal information can drive to dramatic consequences such identity theft, damaged reputation or even a death. It does not come to anybody as a surprise that social networks make identity theft easier for the criminal because people provide on their own free will a well-structured detailed data of their identity. The TMI! research shows, basing on the enormous body of statistics,  that nearly one third of users know someone whose identity has been stolen. Moreover, there is no denying that social networks affect the reputation of a person. According to the same research, over 75% of all recruiters pay attention to the  candidate’s network profile. Furthermore, it is very important to maintain a person’s privacy because it can lead to some physical impact and even death. There was a teenage girl, who was killed while being home alone. The fact is, that a few hours before this she had tweeted “Have the house to myself everybody gone.” and it worked as a trigger. 

To sum up, it is very important to realise that making too much personal data public can pose some real threats, although some people still think it is completely safe and useful. In a modern society, where over 90% of people has their own profile on social network, it is very important to be sensible while sharing information.
