Juvenile offenders should receive life sentences for murders

It is unsurprising that when a murder is committed by a mature person, it can easily be explained by a difficult childhood, the lack of education, social circles in which he/she moves. Quite differently are perceived juvenile offenders. Their personality is not formed yet, that is why so terrible and scary in essence acts cannot be explained from the typical stereotypical point of view. The question arises as to whether murders committed by juvenile offenders should be judged the same way as those committed by the adults. Although some people oppose life sentences for juvenile murderers, I strongly believe that it is the best way to avoid new murders. 

First of all, opponents of life sentences for juvenile murderers claim that the personality of adolescents is not formed yet and they do not realize what they are doing. But this view is rather subjective. According to Russian legislation, full criminal responsibility arises with 16 years old and the 11-year-old adolescent may also be imprisoned with particularly serious criminal offenses. That means that by law they are responsible for their actions and are aware of consequences. Furthermore, modern sociological studies have shown that human personality (индивидуальность) is formed at the age of 13-15 years, when adolescents reach puberty.

Secondly, opponents maintain that life imprisonment without parole deprives adolescents of normal life, conditions in prison are not appropriate for children. They say that young murderers will not be able to go to college, start a family or have children. But according to the above mentioned sociological studies, the character (личность) is especially actively forming in adolescence. As a rule, if the person is socialized in prison and is surrounded by other criminals, who have the greatest impact on his/her behavior, he/her will become a full-fledged criminal at liberty. Clearly, they have the mentality of a psychically sick person and cannot maintain the normal life. 

The final argument advanced by opponents is that some children may repent of their deeds but they will not have an opportunity for “the second chance”. I partly agree with that argument, some murders may be committed out of fear or under the bad influence of something. But it is very difficult to separate the victim of the circumstances and the real killer. For example, 12-year-old prisoner Jesse Pomeroy was released earlier for good behavior whereupon he murdered another 12 people. 

It should be evident that the arguments against life sentences are not valid. On the contrary, many people believe that if life sentences for murders committed by juvenile offenders will be enshrined in law, the number of crimes will go down, as teens will understand what they are sacrificing. Furthermore, adolescents are committing crimes consciously and if they have completed some sentence in jail, they become true criminals and cannot come back to the normal life. Finally, if the murderer was released earlier he/she may cause potential harm to somebody else. Therefore, in my opinion, the government should toughen the legislation in relation to juvenile offenders. 
