Death penalty in the USA

The introduction of the death penalty for serious crimes in all US states has been an issue of debate for a long time due to the importance of reducing homicides while keeping the justice system fair and democratic. At the moment, the death penalty is authorized in 37 US states, the Federal Government and the U.S. Military, as opposed to 13 states and the District of Columbia, where the death sentence is prohibited. The opponents to the capital punishment argue that putting criminals to death is an unethical and inefficient practice, which may even lead to the murder of additional innocent people. However, I have got an opposite point of view and this essay is dedicated to the description of several arguments in favor of the death penalty for grievous crime.

To begin with, the opponents to the countrywide legalization of the death penalty usually claim that it does not teach the criminals and offers a fast and easy deliverance for murderers, while imprisonment, especially a life-long one, is a well-deserved punishment, and thereby acts as a greater incentive to avoid crime commitment. However, I believe that capital punishment is a highly efficient deterrent, as there is nothing more terrifying, than loosing your life. Clearly, even if you are given a life sentence, there is always a chance to escape from the prison (and thereby there is always a risk for the society, as such people do not usually change) or just to survive there. In essence, when you are capitally convicted, there is no chance and no escape, game is over and this is a rather fair retribution.  To illustrate, the U.S. homicide rate, which includes murder, fell from 24,526 in 1993 to 15, 522 in 1999 – the period, characterized with an increased use of the death penalty.

Secondly, many think that killing human beings, even criminals, is unethical, that we are depriving people of the right to life by taking it from them and that modern democratic states should not resort to such practices. In my opinion, there is no reason to be ethical with those, who believe to actually possess this right and reave them of their life would be the minimum thing we can do for the families and friends of the murdered people. Among other things, there is a mistaken opinion that in this case the execution of the sentence is always a cruel and deeply painful process. In fact, all the methods are almost painless: for example, being put to death on the electric chair, a criminal has one of the conductors strapped around his head with the bare metal flush. This allows the electricity to go directly into the brain, killing the person more quickly than his brain can register any pain. When it comes to such painful practices as using the gas chamber, they are already prohibited by the law in all US states.

Ultimately, there is no denying that there is always a risk of false accusations and death of innocent people. Nevertheless, such mistakes do not happen that frequently, and highly questionable prosecutions should be examined until the problem is resolved. Either way, if this condition is fulfilled precisely and if the implementation of the sentence comes with certain limitations, the number of erroneous charges may be reduced to a minimum, while people will get rid of the most dangerous and the most violent criminals, making life safer both for the prison guards and for the rest of the society. Moreover, we should take into account that using the example of the USA, only a very tiny proportion of murderers are sentenced to death,  about 1,2% , and even a smaller proportion of this 1,2% are finally executed. Another convincing point relative to this debate concerns the fact that the society will not only remove its worst members, but also save on costs of alimentation of prisoners and other expenses, relative to this issue.  I believe there is a wide range of social spheres that dramatically need additional funding – from hospitals and boarding schools to universities and science. 

As it can be seen from the above, there is a number of arguments that are based on evidence and refute the widespread belief that the death penalty is ineffective in combating serious crime and that resorting to capital punishment is unethical, violates human rights and may lead to such irreversible consequences, as false accusation and , consequently , death of innocent people. However, the statistic shows that introduction of capital punishment reduces homicides. In addition to this, death penalty is not that unethical as it may seem, just because it is a fair retribution that is implemented without excessive cruelty and takes place relatively rarely. All in all, introducing death sentence may make people’s lives more secure and provide the basis for the greater social stability.
