A Justified Penalty?

According to Amnesty International, in 2013 39 inmates were executed in the United States. There are still huge debates in the US about the death penalty, especially for murderers. Although some people claim that introducing the death sentence for homicide will likely be a misstep, killing such criminals is an adequate punishment for at least two reasons related to individuals and society as a whole.

Those who do not support the “eye for an eye” approach usually mention cruelty of modern execution methods, mental illness of murders, and the potential mental harm caused to correctional officers by execution procedures. However, these arguments do not seem persuasive. Firstly, today’s lethal injection drugs such as pentobarbital and propofol do not cause any suffering to people. As a result, lethal injection is the method currently used in all of the 32 states which allow the death penalty. Secondly, according to the Supreme Court, the execution of mentally retarded inmates is prohibited by the Eighth Amendment. Therefore, people who cannot in essence respond for their actions will never be executed. Another large issue involved in this debate revolves around people who execute murderers and frequently suffer from having to kill just like soldiers. However, it was their decision to pursue this profession.

There are other arguments for introducing obligatory death penalty: the "measure for measure" principle, costs of keeping prisoners alive, and crime prevention. First of all, the fact that some innocent people were sentenced to death does not mean that 3,088 people on death row should live whereas their victims are dead. Second of all, life imprisonment which is funded by the state usually costs more than the capital punishment procedure and preceding appeal process. For instance, imprisoning someone for 40 years in Washington costs $1.5 Million. Last but not least, the death penalty deters crime and improves the community by eliminating recidivism. As reported by the US Department of Justice, within 3 years, 1.2% of released murders were again arrested for homicide.

To conclude, these arguments clearly show that the introduction of capital punishment is necessary to keep the US citizens safer, and potentially even save their lives. However, in the states where the death penalty is banned the issue of its introduction is too controversial to expect any changes in the Amnesty International statistics.
