People should work for themselves or own a business

Scott Belsky, the co-founder of “Behance”, an online network of sites specialising in self-promotion, once said: “It’s not about ideas. It’s about making ideas happen”. This seems to be the motto by which many people started to live nowadays. Even though some believe that owning your business might be too demanding and tiring, in my opinion opening a firm brings more benefits than damages, such as job security, flexibility, and realisation of personal potential. 

To begin with, it is claimed that starting an enterprise might be too hard and risky. Who knows if a person can succeed in what he or she decides to do? Ironically, more than 31% of those surveyed by “Entrepreneur.com” named job security as the main reason they want to run a business. Moreover, when you are your own boss you cannot be fired by someone else, which means that whether you keep your job or not depends entirely on you. 

Second of all, the overwhelming majority of people think that building a company from square one is very time-consuming. Truth be told, there’s no denying that it does take a considerable amount of time. Nevertheless, it is only so in the very beginning. When a firm is more or less established, the founder can set his or her timetable all by himself/herself. That leads to having less of a burden to overcome, since it facilitates maintaining one’s personal work/life balance. 

Finally, despite the fact that it is often said that personal fulfilment can be achieved only in creative industries, there is no better way to express yourself than to run your own business. As Sir Richard Branson said, “Entrepreneurship is turning what excites you in life into capital”. Maintaining an organisation alone gives you, among other things, the freedom of choice. Founders are at liberty to enter whichever industry they have a preference for, choose what goals their company is going to have, decide how it is going to carry out those goals.
All in all, it is fairly obvious that arguments against owning an enterprise are much less solid than the ones in favour. After all, someone is supposed to open a company in order for them to exist and contribute to national economies. Considering how many advantages running your own firm has, I believe that owning a business is ultimately a better choice than working for someone else. 
