Death penalty should be introduced in all US States

Death penalty is one of the most popular subjects of debate in the USA. As everybody knows each state has its own legislation, so some state execute death penalty, others avoid it. It this essay I will try to convince you that death penalty is an effective and acceptable punishment and every state should invoke it. To prove my position I examine to main issues related with execution. 

The first is: does death penalty deter crime? Opponents of execution believe that many criminals may actually find the prospect of the death penalty less daunting (and thus, less effective as a deterrent) than spending the rest of their lives suffering in jail. Yes, execution is generally quick, but I suppose that life in prison is less frightful mulct in comparison with legal killing because every criminal care of his life and hopes to escape or get a pardon. That is why using more strict measures all states can deter crimes and prevent further ones.  

The next question is: does execution help resolve the problem with overcrowding of prisons? Opponents of execution think that government should use more humane solutions for alleviating overcrowded prisons, for example: increase community service requirements, build more prisons, or target broader crime reduction programs. However they do not think about other people. Why government should spend enormous amount of money on criminals rather than spend it on improvement standard of living? From my point of view, it will be fare and economically sound to build electric chair and use savings to improve infrastructure or extend welfare programs. To sum up, we can see that using penalty of death USA can solve problem and improve situation in the country, which is impossible to achieve with human methods.  

To conclude, I would like to say that execution is not popular type of penalty in the world, but it is extremely effective because it diminishes crime rate, tackles a problem with overcrowding of prisons and at the same time economically favorably. I believe that the authorities of the states pay attention to my sight and will execute the death penalty.
