Today, more individuals use religion for therapeutic purposes 

The XXI century is the era of the Internet, science, high-technology equipment, in vitro fertilization and etc.. However, many people from all around the world resort to the help of religion and various cults with the purpose of healing both physical and mental diseases. It may seem injudicious, but such therapy is needed due to several reasons: 1) reaching an impasse — it only remains to hope; 2) religious ceremony facilitates overcoming stress; 3) the belief in afterlife strengthens the emotional stability and prolongs life.

Firstly, at a crucial moment when some facts militate against one’s hopes, a faith could serve as a life buoy. It is clear that the force or persuasion can cure and in some instances cults and prayers have an effect of the placebo. Also, there is an enormous body of evidence. To illustrate, the Inter-American Statistical Institute found that 77% of depressed patience feels a sense of relief, while visiting house of worship, in comparison with those who only takes drugs (64%).

Another convincing point relative to this debate concerns the atmosphere of a ceremony. Incense, music and solitude resolve the issue of tension. Truth be told, some rituals employ questionable practices, for example, buddhistic ceremony with the «Om-mantra» that makes people fall into a trance and escapes from negative thoughts. Nevertheless, such method is effective. Unsurprisingly, various practices of meditation (for example, yoga) have become increasingly popular.

Finally, the belief that in the next world everything will be rewarded appeases many people. When it comes to fatal illness there is nothing, but hope. Arguably, spending last days of one’s life it is better to fully enjoy time with family than enduring the stress of wasted time. The faith in eternal life may prolong one’s being, let alone with the power of a psychological methods such as the visualization of the future, of the reincarnation or the afterlife. In essence, the most famous psychologists at hospices have a preference for these treatment methods.

All in all, even in the post-industrial era it is unwise to chastise or not to take into account the importance of religion as a therapy. Religion has at least 3 function: acts as a placebo; creates the atmosphere of peace and appeasement and gives hope when nothing else remains. At the age of progress there are a lot of unknown diseases still and all issues will not be resolved soon. That is why there is a diversity of religions that supports morale and spirit.
