Rehabilitated drug addicts can return to normal social life

Not everyone is able to win itself. We all promise ourselves to give up smoking, go to the gym or go on a healthy diet, but not everyone has the willpower even for such simple things. Then what should we do if the problem is much more serious, and its solution requires a huge effort? Talking about drug addicted, we should consider the fact that this is a real chronic and progressive disease, not something invented, and this problem is really need to be solved as fast as it possible. About 250000 people every year take part in rehabilitation programs, but what is the real number of so-called “former drug addicts”? Even doctors propose that there is no former patients; there are only those who have stopped taking drugs for some period of time. Although the claim that former drug addicted cannot return to normal social life after rehab sounds desperately, there is some evidence that those people, unfortunately, are terminally ill.

Opponents of such idea claim that after long and diligent rehabilitation program former patients have all chance to network successfully, about 79% could find a job and more than 83% have managed to restore relationships with relatives, but the reality is more severe. Recent studies have shown that such rehab programs include taking of strong antidepressant medicine that cause melancholy, sleep disorders and depression. Do we need any explanation why such things may harm the recovering process, especially the social aspect? Furthermore, we should consider the fact that such meds could also cause aggression in inflamed after a long addiction brain, because of chemical reactions and then provocate unpredictable desires to fight, kill and so on(health.mail.ru). 

In addition, opponents of idea that drug addicts can return to normal social life after rehab maintain that such patients have a huge probability to give up it forever, but that’s not true. The probability of failure, unfortunately, remains one year after cessation of drug use, and in 5 or 10 years: changing psyche and health harm caused by drugs remain for a lifetime. Therefore, it is difficult to speak of a "former" drug addicts, as we have already aforementioned. Moreover, even if the rehab program was successfully completed, many patients still communicate with their addicted friends and dealers because they don’t have another choice- most part of them have already become estranged from their “normal” friends and relatives  - they have rejected them. That’s why they can’t do nothing except continuing communication with them, but the risks also become higher. Despite the fact, that there are enough cases when people gave up taking drugs forever, the researchers have claimed that most part of ‘post-rehab” addicts start taking drugs again due to their “environment”.

And the final argument advanced by opponents of such idea is that such patients need in external help, because their mind is blurred by drugs and they can’t control themselves, and that’s why they are unable
 to deal with that problem alone, and even after recovery they have an extreme need in support from the outside. Actually, they’re right in some aspects, but: if the drug addicted man or woman didn’t expressed its own desire to cure itself, nothing else matters. “They try to make me go to rehab, but I say: No! No! No!” –these are the words from the very popular song. Even the best private clinics with the best doctors and the best medicines and the best recovering program with an anonymous club of such people cannot help drug addicts if desperate parents or lover brought them there. Nothing makes sense without personal desire because in such a case former patients become helpless coach potatoes for a lifetime.

It should be evident that the idea of return to normal life is not valid. On the contrary, drug addicts taking antidepressants don’t have huge desire to take drugs again because of the fear of   the repetition of narcotic withdrawal. Furthermore, drug addicts after rehab may become the successful example for their addicted friends and give them hope for a cure. Finally, most part of the patients in rehab clinics were brought there by their parents or relatives and even it’s enough to cure, but it may ease the sufferings of the whole family. Nevertheless, all these arguments again support the idea that the former drug addict will not able to expand his networks. Unfortunately, its network of contacts will always be limited.
