Same-sex couples should be allowed to adopt children if the child's brought up in a loving environment

Today it is not surprise that same - sex couples can get marrige in the most of european countries, in USA and Latin America. Our world is getting more liberal and society more  tolerant. We used to talk about rights which are granted by government and we are trying to fight for them and comply with civil society. However, not all citizens are afforded equal rights. Gay and lesbians are consistently denied rights that are typically taken for granted by most advanced and developing countries. Specifically, same-sex couples are denied the right to marry even if they are law-abiding  citizens and what is more they are virtually denied to adopt children. Many people think that it is obvious discrimination but others do not agree with this fact. 

Opponents of same – sex adoption in particular consider that children raised by gay parents could follow only one partnership model and  therefore  they have more likely to be gay. For instance, according to polish scientist in Spain the parent’s homosexual couples adopting or fostering children is that parent’s homosexuality will influence their children’s upbringing. 

Besides, opponents also maintain the idea that children from homosexual families will get confused because everyone else will have two different – gendered parents. As a result, children will be exposed to suffer humiliations at schools from their classmates and friends. 

Finally, the most common argument against same-sex adoption is that it is immoral and God made man and woman with many different characteristics and a child needs both a mother and a father in order to grow adequate and pure person without any deviations. 

However, it should be evident that the arguments against same-sex adoption are not enough valid. On the contrary, for a child has a value who brings up his family. If a family consists of  alcoholics, if  in family there are constantly scandals, if the family is approved rigidity or some perversion like pedophilia - it hurts the child. But we do not prohibit families with severe permanent relationships that hurt the child, such families have children. Moreover, nowadays there is substantial lack of adoptive parents and so homosexual couples could resolve this problem.

To draw the conclusion, one can say that with the lapse of time, children raised by gay parents will understand the complexity of human relationships. And more importantly, how they feel in this type of family, how to take care of them and to give love and future. Consequently, same -  sex couples should be allowed to adopt children otherwise it is unfair discrimination. 
