Same-sex couples should be allowed to adopt children if the child’s brought up in a loving environment

“Mom” and “Dad” are words familiar to us since childhood. The word “family” is as a rule also associated with the picture representing joyful man, woman and child. But today we are living in a changing and globalizing world. The vision of a family also is changing. Mom and Dad can be not only heterosexual partners, but also homosexual ones. Since the late 90s to the world a wave of legalization of marriage between same-sex partners is gaining strength. Currently there are heated debates about the right of such families to adopt children. Despite the fact that many progressive communities support the idea of the adoption of children by same-sex partners, there are many reasons for questioning the granting of such rights.

Supporters of the view that same-sex partners should be allowed to take children to grow up argue that the ban on adoption of children by same-sex couples is discriminatory. However this should be kept in mind that this phenomenon in society is still quite new, and the news that the parents of the child are unisexual is not always perceived adequately. This in turn can cause the child to be discriminated by society.

The next argument of the supporters lies in the fact that children raised in same-sex families grow up more tolerant. However often the degree of complexity of the situation, which accompanies the need to explain the nature of same-sex families to the child does not take into account. Whether deceive the child to a certain age that it's mother's or father's friend live with them or try to explain why most of the other families are quite different, there is of course the choice of same-sex parents.

Final argument of supporters of the right of adoption of children by same-sex couples advocates the idea that if the children are brought up in an atmosphere of love and mutual respect, there is no difference is this same-sex or heterosexual couples. The main thing is that children grow up with no differences from ones brought up by "normal" mom and dad. Nevertheless, it is worth noting that in a same-sex family children do not get an example of patterns of behavior of men and women in heterosexual couples, that in the future may significantly complicate the creation of their own family and their life in general.

Undoubtedly same-sex couples have the right to exist, as well as every human being has the right to be loved and respected. However, taking responsibility for the future of the child whose life will probably contain a lot of difficulties caused, in particular, by sex of his or her parents, is already a matter of public importance, as well as taking care of all children in the state. While it cannot be proven that such a child will not show any abnormalities in the development in the future, that possibility of attack by society which could threaten his or her mental health is minimized, granting of the right for same sex couples to adopt children is not worth it. 
