Sharing too much personal information on social networks is dangerous

Globalization provides us with almost free access to the Internet and all the resources accompany it. You can buy what you want online. You can watch what you want online. You can talk with whom you want online. There are not boarders for the opportunities available in the WEB.  Such conditions outline the urgent issue: where is the place of your privacy in this information flow and how should you introduce yourself through the Internet. Although some people believe that danger of privacy deprivation is not related to the Internet access, there are some evidences that the WEB restricts our personal identification.

The opponents of hiding personal information argue that sharing such kind of information gives us a number of opportunities: the easy way of finding new friends, the advertising adapted to your preferences, the easy way of understanding people. However, the WEB accumulates a lot of rogues who want to ‘become friends’ with you or your children and then use your ‘friendship’ in his selfish goals. Moreover, the anonymous interview of random people identified that 82% of respondents are irritated by the WEB advertising appeared according to their searches. Finally, many people create their image in the Internet which is not true and does not identify them in real life. That is why you can exercise some difficulties in understanding people through the WEB.

The supporters of nondisclosure personal information claim that your real life is put in danger because of the hackers’ activities, the generation of online-shops’ offers according to your preferences included in your profile and the robbers’ activities. The first danger reflects the opportunities for hackers to break your personal number of credit card and steal all the money you have. According to the statistics the damage of carding was 400 million dollars in Russia in 2011. The second danger threatens you by the great waste of your money because you will think that it is the only thing you want to buy if online-shops just create their product line and advertising suitable for your profile. The last and most awful danger includes the activities of robbers who can easily follow your location through the photos you post or the comments you type. That is why experts advise the Internet users to restrain themselves from posting the photos with your location in current time. It will help you to avoid unexpected ‘guests’ in your house.

In conclusion it is important to mention that there are a lot of proponents of sharing personal information in the Internet as well as there are many opponents of this activity because of a number of cases. Any way the issue of privacy takes important place in our day-to-day life as we have both great opportunities and great treats of the Internet.
