National security is more important than our privacy

Nowadays we share gigabytes of information thanks to modern inventions. But we should face the truth – devices destroyed the space of our privacy. The government assure us that this maintain national security. Nevertheless, some citizens declare against such a policy because their private information may fall into dishonest people’s hands, harm them and deprive them of their basic rights. Although many people pay so much attention on privacy, I believe that we should sacrifice privacy to live in a safe country.

First, opponents of privacy law claim that our personal information is used in questionable schemes and spread among different companies with doubtful objectives. However, such data is applied in not only debatable practices; it also helps in medical, social and other researches. To illustrate, in 2011, after scientists had analyzed a huge source of private information, they discovered the fact that taking antidepressants during pregnancy leads to a higher risk of birth of a child with autism. These are results processed  by the medical centre Kaiser Permanente, and if it had organized just a little research with the consent of its patients, it would have been impossible to make a discover.

Second, we are told that exercising increased control over our private life drives feeling more anxiety about our safety. As opposed to this point of view, I would say that there are a lot of examples, when crimes were solved or anticipated thanks to an access of the police to private information, such as messages in social networks, printout of incoming and outcoming calls etc. For instance, the Russian social network Odnoklassniki is considered to be an ideal source of information by investigators because it shows the whole circle of user’s contacts, including not only “friends”, but also “friends of friends”. That’s why maintaining people’s privacy may pose difficulties for the police in preventing terrorist attacks and crimes.

Third, people who are for absolute privacy fear that concessions in favour of national security will lead to losing basic rights. However, they forget that there are no absolute rights or conceptions. We always face some limitations to live in the calm and safe world; otherwise the life would be very chaotic because the right of one person would bump into another one’s. For example, the right to free speech does not allow people to say whatever and wherever they want. Swearing is prohibited, and it is supposed to be normal, although, in essence, it restricts the freedom of speech. 

To sum up, I agree with those who permit a little disregard of privacy in favour of national security. Having an access to personal information gives an opportunity of important researches, successful work of the police and it should be interpreted like a standard norm.
