National security is more important than our privacy

The September 11 attacks in the USA, Beslam massacre, the 2010 Moscow metro bombings - there are just several examples of abusive terrorist attacks in the world. The problem of national security is often under discussion nowadays. Some people are sure that state security is above personal confidentiality. The other opinion is that privacy could not be broken even if it is done to save the country. This essay will examine both points of view.

On the one hand, people prefer to keep their personal lives in secret, to have their personal space. In other words, nobody wants to open all information about himself to the whole world. Moreover, privacy is guaranteed by the government and the Constitution. Privacy is defined as the ability of an individual to seclude himself or information about himself, and thereby express himself selectively. In some cases privacy may be voluntarily sacrificed. However, personal information which is voluntarily shared but stolen or misused can lead to identify theft. One of the latest examples is the situation with Edward Snowden, an American computer professional and a former CIA, who told the truth to the world about total surveillance of American special services for communications between citizens of many countries all over the world. This case is the balance between national security of the USA and privacy of many people. The USA was displeased to know that Mr. Snowden had stolen a lot of security information and ordinary citizens from different countries were angry with the United States for their surveillance.

On the other hand, national security is rather more important than our privacy. Obviously, a person prefers to save the state and to help the government than to protect his privacy when his life is under threat. Usually the government provides national security in order to protect the state and its citizens against all kind of national crises through a variety of power projections. It should be noted, that privacy also should be broken in a correct form, it means that a person should be asked about using their private information. Unfortunately, there are some cases, when the government does not have enough time to ask a person, so it uses private information without permission. From my point of view, it is acceptable because sometimes this information could save thousands or even millions of lives.

It can be generally concluded that national security dominates privacy. Every person has a right to have his own life and to keep it in secret. However, when we are talking about saving people's lives we should forget about our privacy and do our best to help the government to prevent the attack.       
