Sharing too much personal information on social networks is dangerous

Nowadays social networks are becoming increasingly important, overwhelmingly among the youngsters. They share every moment of their life with others, ranging from what they eat to how they look in this or that particular minute. Little wonder that heated disputes arose over the question whether one can be at liberty to use social networks or there is a need to come with certain limitations to that. Some people say that social networks bring only benefits, but further consideration shows that all is not gold that glitters and it is necessary to protect your personal information as much as possible. 

One the one hand, security settings allow you to restrict the number of people, who can see your so-called “posts”. Nevertheless, they don’t defend you from hackers, who can infringe on your right of privacy. For instance, you can become a “victim” of a malware: when you click on the 'wrong' link sent on your email, your hardware or software can be infected, and you have to endure the stress of reinstalling it. 

Secondly, people can always stay in touch with their friends, sharing with them everything they find important. The flip side to this problem is that social networks make people dependent on the Internet. For example, many individuals prefer a virtual life to the real one, searching online instead of meeting with their friends and relatives and experiencing new emotions outside the computer. 

Finally, your parents and friends always know, where you are. But on the other hand, terrorists and murderers also know your location, which can cause potential harm and even pose a threat to one’s life. To illustrate, a teenage girl was murdered after having tweeted – “have the house to myself everybody gone”, so a criminal came particularly at the time, when she was alone and no one could protect her. 

While both sides of this debate have convincing arguments, from my perspective, a person should use social networks properly, but bearing in mind the fact that your private information should not be published and that posts should have adequate limits. 

To sum up, that being said, the best thing to do is not to exaggerate the amount of time spent using the Web and giving preference to what is happening in the reality, keeping privacy and not sharing everything with the Internet-public.
