Sharing too much personal information on social networks is dangerous

Have you ever logged in Facebook or Twitter, or posted photos in Instagram? Of course you have. I mean that nowadays, truth be told, almost everybody have accounts in social networks and share information with their friends or “followers”. Some people believe that this situation reflects a new social norm. Others oppose this argument and say that sharing too much personal information may be dangerous. 

Facebook, Twitter, Google+, YouTube and other social networks have become an essential part of online lives because it is a great approach to stay connected with others, but to my mind you should always be aware about how much personal information you post. For example, posting key information such as physical addresses, emails, cell phone numbers, account numbers, passwords can lead to a serious consequences. Furthermore there is no denying that you should not brag online about embarrassing things you’ve done, like skipping work. 

Opponents also maintain that we can feel safe to share information because of high-level of law machinery. Conversely there are a lot of cases, especially in IT area, where they have no power. Many stories exist of personal information being used for harmful reasons. Recent cases include a VP at Hewlett-Packard disclosing company secrets on LinkedIn, accidentally sending an explicit text to all contacts in an address book–personal and business, pics on Facebook of a drinking binge with work colleagues, or simple being stalked by a predator or a collections agency. Among other things employers should educate employees on the dangers of sharing too much personal and company information online. This investment in time can preserve data, competitive advantage, identity, company intellectual property, and much more.

The final argument advanced by opponent is that online activity can increase your popularity. However your reputation may suffer. Clearly one of the most common online dangers for anybody who uses social media today is that whatever they say is there for the entire world to see. As a result these sites are typically used as part of a screening process or background check by potential employers or other organizations.

Ultimately, make personal information public may pose a lot of difficulties. I believe that people should share information carefully and maintain privacy.
