Violent movies and video games contribute to people getting violent in real life

How many of us have watched popular movies with a lot of violence and played video games like “GTA”, in which murder is a matter of fun? I suppose, most of us. Nowadays people are used to violence and even are fond of it in form of films or video games. Some people consider, that movies with violence and computer games do not provoke aggression among common people, but I think, that it is the main reason of teenagers’ crime and criminality as a whole.

People think, that these movies and video games are not the point of concern for 3 reasons- movies are just movies; such films show tough reality; if people are violent, they will always be. But I can not agree with these arguments. Firstly, in essence, violent movies and video games can seriously influence people, especially the overwhelming majority of children and teenagers. Secondly, movies show not real life, but criminal world, which can easily attract teenagers. And thirdly, films with violence can contribute to existing aggression among people, especially with weak character. 

I consider violent movies and video games detrimental to people for 3 reasons- such films cause murders; they show model of behavior for teenagers and children; video gamers always ‘get stuck’ in their games. Firstly, many popular films have famous actors, whom people endorse. They can show how to robe a bank easily or even to kill a policeman. Some people even copy murders from horror films and this is really terrible. In 2011 Chris Mayton from Canada has performed 4 murders of young women, based on the film  “Scream”, where a psychopath killer in a musk performed a series of murders. Secondly, children and teenagers, who have unformed personality, can except aggression and violence in these films as a norm. According to the survey of Michigan University, starting from 2001, the level of aggression among university students has risen in a half. These statistics show us, how influential movies and video games are. Thirdly, among other things, video gamers quite often can not distinguish games from reality. They play for 12 hours per day and feel themselves content in these games. That is why they perform cruel things, which  they do in their video games in real life.  In 2012 in Russia, the player of ‘Counter strike’ game Vadim Roikin, killed 5 people, because he thought that they were his enemies.

Ultimately, I think that most violent movies have bad effect on people, because they encourage them to perform crime, damage teenagers character and even can lead to dependence on violence, when it comes to video games. Clearly, we should   take this issue seriously and think twice, before we gather for one more violent movie or play with our brothers and sisters in video games.
