Businesses should hire employees for their entire lives

In generations past it was not unheard of people to stay at one company, or in one job for their entire lives.  Nowadays the situation on a labor market changed and usually people work in one firm no more than 10 years. However, an opinion, that businesses should hire an employee for their entire working live, still exists.  The world changes so rapidly, and that is why I think that people today should change the workplace easily.

The main argument for job for life is loyalty to a firm. The more time a person works in a company, the more efforts he does to make it more successful and profitable. Unfortunately, it is true now only for Japan and some other Asian countries. According to the survey of  RBC,  people lose enthusiasm with time. In today’s world it is important to change everything easily, to be flexible, to be able to adapt quickly to market changes, because of that people more and more vary not only workplaces, but even professions.

Some people consider that working in one firm can ensure confidence in the future, you can’t  be dismissed even in times of crisis. Such opinion destroy competitive atmosphere, which in its turn allows to achieve more goals and maximum productivity. It goes without saying that company’s success depend on efficiency of employee’s work, but it is impossible without competition.
 
Our grandparents usually say that it is better to find a good company, work hard and be promoted. It was a key of success in the nineteenth and twelfth centuries. Life has changed. If you want to be successful, you should be experienced, learn new skills in order to move up your career or move on to new companies in order to utilize your unique knowledge.  It is better for the company, when its employee has worked in different fields, with different clients and on challenged project. Such people can bring into a company new ideas, new views on working process.     

In conclusion,  the old saying “a job is for life” reflected past.  I absolutely disagree with the statement that businesses should hire employees for their entire lives. Markets and economies, as everything else in the world, change faster and faster. Today’s modern society needs a flexible employment system instead of permanent one. Without a shadow of a doubt, an opportunity to vary a workplaces easily is  beneficial not only for the employees, but also for the businesses.
