Assignment:  Some  people  think  governments  should  spend  as  much  money  as  possible  exploring  outer  space  (for  example,  traveling  to  the  Moon  or  other  planets).  Other  people  disagree  and  think  governments  should  spend  money  for  our  basic  needs  on  Earth.  Which  of  these  two  opinions  do  you  agree  with?   Use  specific  reasons  and  details  to  support  your  answer.

Nowadays governments  spend  a  lot  of  money  on  expensive  space  programs.  The  question  arises  as  to  whether  is  it  worth  spending  such  substantial  amounts  in  this  direction  in  essence  or  is  it  more  rational  to  invest  them  into  basic  needs  on  Earth?  Truth  be  told,  the  humanity  was  debating  this  issue  numerous  times  for  multiple  reasons.  Despite  the  fact  that  space  exploration  brings  to  us  thousands  of  inventions  which  we  use  in  our  daily  life,  there  is  no  denying  that  there  are  areas  in  which  this  money  could  be  invested  better first such  as  poverty,  education  and  economic  issues.

Those  who  propose  government  spending  as  much  money  as  possible  exploring  outer  space   argue  that   due  to  these  investments  only,  the  Earth  would  be  more  protected,  humanity  could  have  an  access  to  more  natural  resources  and  also  it  would  lead  to  great  technological  advances.  Firstly,  if  people  know  more  facts  about  universe,  clearly,  it  will  provide  a  mean  to  discover  different  ways  to  make  our  planet more  secure  and  safe  place  to  live  in.  Secondly,  related  to  overpopulation,  we  are  burning the  earth’s  natural  resources  pretty  quickly  but  out  in  space  there  are  virtually  unlimited  resources.  And  finally,  results  of  space  exploration  brings  us  a  lot  of  useful  inventions  which  in  turn  could  be  essential  in  medicine,  education  or  just  communication  spheres.  

On  the  other  hand,  in  most  developing  countries  the  most  urgent  issues  governments  facing  with  are  poverty,  economic  instability  of  the  country  and  also  illiteracy.  To  begin  with,  instead  of  space  we  should  think  of  the  people  who  die  lacking  in  food   and   spend  funds  for  their  rescue.  When  it  comes  to  statistics,  there  are  more  than  100  million  homeless  people  around  the  world,  out  of  which  45%  are  kids  below  13  and  the  rest  55%  are  over  13  years  old.  Another  issue  involved  in  this  debate  revolves  around  the  fact  that  governments  should  invest  money  in  projects  that help  to  overcome  any  financial  crisis.  For  example,  if  in  times  of  financial  crisis  of  2008  the  USA  government  used  money  that spent  on  space  searching  programs  in  other  useful  programs,  it  would  be  less  affected  by  the  sequels  of  that  crisis.  Among  other  things,  today  it  is  very  difficult  to  be  successful  without  an  education  so  government   should  spend  as  much  money  as  possible  resolving  this  issue  in  order  to  improve  educational  system  of  the  country  and  provide  children  opportunities  to  reach  their  fullest  potential  to  be  successful  in  life.  Based  on  federal  statistics  of  USA,  14% of  the  US  adult  population  cannot  read.

Ultimately,  it  is  fairly  obvious  that  there  are  so  many  problems  on  Earth  which  cannot  be  solved  without help  of  governments  that   is  why  money   should  be  spent  on  saving  this  planet  and  each  particular  country  in  the  first  place  rather  than  exploring  outer  space. So,  either  way,  it  would  be  more  reasonable to  focus  on  our  basic  problems  which  are more  important  matter  right  now.
