There are certain advantages to advertising on Facebook 

The opponents to advertising on social networks claim that spreading the advertisements through the social networks such as Facebook is very costly, annoying and inefficient – surfing on the Internet, people will never stop to such advertising, scrolling it. However, I believe that it is very important for any business to find the fastest and the shortest path to the target audience - advertising on Facebook manages this task perfectly. Moreover, advertising on Facebook or social media marketing stands on the leading position among the tools of the Internet promotion for many years. Why? I will try to answer this question by giving some reasons.

Facebook is the greatest place for advertising as it is the most “populous” social network connecting millions of people from all corners of our planet. This fact leads to the thought that the more the social network is promoted, the larger audience visits this site every day. That’s why Facebook gives the opportunity to attract hundreds of thousands of users to the promoted brand, product or service.  

The researches of comScore and social network Facebook show that European Internet users are satisfied with the opportunities of communication and advertising information, provided by Facebook. Moreover, the proportion of time that the average European spends on social networks, increased on average by 17% per year. Knowing this information, companies use it to increase brand or service awareness on the Internet and to motivate the buyer to purchase the good.

Only social networks give advertisers the possibility of selecting the target audience according different criteria: gender, age, place of residence, marital status, profession and even hobbies. Facebook has also the above-mentioned criteria, allowing to select the target audience correctly, what is very convenient for advertisers. For example, the online store of e-books has an opportunity to advertise their goods not for all users, but only for those who noted in their hobbies “reading books” or for those who are in the communities of people who like to read, what makes advertising more effective. 

Thus, advertising on Facebook is the most perceptive form of Internet advertising both for advertisers who receive unique opportunities for reaching the target audience, increase brand or service awareness by attracting hundreds of thousands of users to the promoted brand and for users who can learn about all the interesting them products “through the one click”. That’s why advertising on Facebook stands the first, the most convenient and the most effective among the tools of the Internet promotion for many years.
