Books shouldn't be judged by their movies

Movies are one of the most popular kinds of art nowadays. Almost every person has seen such popular films as Harry Potter, The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, Anna Karenina, Pride and Prejudice and other popular movies based on books. And a lot of people judge these books basing on their movies only. That causes a problem of misunderstanding and misinterpretation of books by those, who watched a movie without reading. But such an approach perturbs book lovers, who watch movies only after reading.

People, who judge books by movies are doing this for the next three possible reasons. Firstly, they do not like reading books, because they can not read for a long period of time, while a movie presents the whole story in two or three hours. That means that movies are the only way to get acquainted with the contents of the book. Secondly, they think that a movie is quite enough for showing the main idea of a book, and that is why a book can be judged at least for its concept. For example, people, who haven't read Harry Potter say that this book series is only about the magic world and the problem of good and evil. What is more, these people are sure that if a movie is uninteresting, than a book is boring, too. For instance, The Picture of Dorian Grey movie was not a successful one, and, as a result, the original story was not actively sold, as it was with Pride and Prejudice. However, I am, as a book lover, totally disagree with these people, because a book is a book, and it is an independent work with the author's idea, which is usually not being showed by a film's director. For example, Harry Potter is not about obvious thing only, like magic, good and evil etc. It is also about the understanding of life's philosophy, friendship, the problem of the choice. Also a film director usually shows only what he sees or how he understands a book. A good example of that is the recent Anna Karenina movie, where the director showed the high society's life as a theatre, and they lived and acted among decorations. And last is that the main reason of making a movie is to earn a lot of money and hit the jackpot, as a result, a movie becomes just a nice image with a lot of impressive special effects. That happened to The Lord of The Rings, when it was divided into three parts, and the author's philosophy was not implemented. That is why judging a book by a movie is not only shortsighted, but also inappropriate. 

To sum up, people, who judge books by their movies should not do this, because books are often differ from their cinema versions. And they need to distinguish that distinction and understand, that books sometimes are much deeper, than a movie, and every person may find something useful for him among pages. 
