Sharing too much personal information on social networks is dangerous

Have you ever wondered, whether many people, who live in developed countries, are registered on the social web sites? Ironically, it is well-known fact that 87% of students share their personal information by posting photos or sharing locations every day. The advocates of social networks argue that sometimes it is easier to build up an image about the person using info from his or her profile on the network; a lot of HR managers use personal information from Facebook when looking for a proper candidate; more information you share, more fame you get. However, these statements can be found questionable.

To begin with, those who contend that looking through the photos and interests gives a better opportunity to know a person better say that according to the research (based on people of 35-45 years) it really works, because 70% of participants said that the expectations have met with the reality. On the other hand, it is obvious that students lie more. That is why a lot of photos on their profiles are fake (34% of students use fake photos), which is proved by the Moscow Statistics Center. These things may lead to unexpected meetings with people who you did not expect to meet, including criminals. 

When it comes to the opinion that recruiters use information from Facebook, it can be argued by the fact that the majority of HR managers are not even registered on social networks. It is fairly obvious that recruiters use their experience and they do not mind what type of lifestyle the future employee uses, because only professional skills are valued. A 2013 study found that 93% of HR managers do not check profiles of their candidates on Facebook, but another study, where police officials were asked, showed that your Facebook account is checked by regional police dept. once a month, including your personal messages, which hits your privacy.

Some people believe that posting photos will bring you fame, but they do not mind about their safety. When they post photos of expensive cars or watches they run the risk of being cleaned out by robbers. Moreover, sometimes people tag their location, which means that burglars know where and what they can rob. Unsurprisingly, the four of 17 football-players, who I follow on Instagram, were robbed (they posted their extremely expensive cars). 

To sum up, this issue has been debated numerous times for multiple reasons and remains controversial. However, there are certain arguments that stand for the opinion that less personal information should be shared because of dangers which lavish us.
