Laws that ban offensive words make the world a better place

It is thought that in Russia people do not use foul language but they do speak in this language. Before this statement was considered to be a joke. But now people increasingly realize that it looks like a truth a lot. Lots of scientists and highly educated people debate whether using offensive words could damage our everyday life. They even compelled a reaction from the government in 2014, which ordained a law that prohibits including obscene words on TV, in films, literature, news media, at theatres.  The question arises as to whether people are ready to refuse from (usage of) using offensive words in their speech? Although many people consider using offensive words to be inadequate, I believe that the moderate usage of the “F” bomb should be present in our life. 

Opponents of foul language claim that such language has a negative influence on our health justifying that with many researches, which have been done on this topic by medical scientists. However, it is inconclusive due to the fact, that there are also other researches, which prove the (converse) opposite. The overwhelming majority of psychologists, for example the European Association of Psychologists claim that offensive words are a good tool for the recovery of the energy balance and for the stress coping. Another convincing point relative to this debate concerns the fact that explicit language indeed helps to suffer even from the strong pain. That was estimated by the British experts from the Cambridge University. It seems to people that when they speak in foul language the physical pain almost disappears. The usage of the “F” bomb leads to the pathway of hormone of happiness – endorphin that influences the organism as a pain reliever.  Among other things, the Perm’s psychologists have discovered that those car drivers who become frustrated with traffics or with other car drivers should scream using explicit language. It will definitely help them to relieve stress. 

Opponents also maintain that offensive words hurt society and shows unethical behavior and upbringing. They say that well-educated, cultural people cannot stand such words, let alone with their usage, because the Russian language is so manifold that people can go without foul language. However, to be fairly obvious, namely cultural people are against the law that forbids including obscene words on TV, in films, literature, news media, at theatres. The artistic managing directors of many theatres in Russia and cinematographs say that they use offensive words in performances because of the creative necessity and because such words help to express emotions correctly so the spectator could feel deeply the determined situation. For example, the famous Russian filmmaker Andrey Zvyaginzev, who’s film Leviathan has got an award for the best picture play on the Cannes Film Festival, is against the total prohibition of foul language and considers that experts of this field should estimate the law.

The final argument advanced by opponents of explicit language is that those who speak this language infringe on the right of those people who consider offensive words to be unacceptable and harmful for themselves and for the society. However, clearly, it arises to discriminatory of people who want to use foul language. Why people should limit the diversification of words they use in their speech? Even the most famous Russian writer Pushkin once has said that any word should be relevant. 

Ultimately, it should be evident that the arguments against the usage of the “F” bomb are not valid enough. There are a lot of situations and spheres where it is impossible to go without using the offensive words. I think that( it) should be at liberty of everyone to speak foul language or not. Therefore, to my mind, the bill prohibiting using explicit language should be repealed or at least changed.
