There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays.
This topic is extremely debatable and it is quite hard to answer unequivocally. The latest occasions and incidents made us think about the future perspectives, and it seems to be miserable. But what is the real situation now and how we should think about it?
First of all, I really consider that most of us have never had it so good. It is obvious fact, that now we have many opportunities that make our life interesting and pleasant. But we still miss most of positive changes, concentrating on negative ones and it make us think that life is getting worse. Partly it is our fault, partly it is the influence of media and politics, and I will try to prove my point of view by giving several evidences.
Firstly, there is the tendency the only hear about things that going wrong in the world. We immerse ourselves in pessimism . In Future Perfect, Johnson notes the media tends to focus on the dramatic, bad or good, news, missing important, but slower changes. “Declaring that things are slightly better than they were a year ago…never makes the front page”.  Our politics do the same thing when they are going to be elected and lead election campaign. In their speeches they promise us to make life better because now it is very terrible. Of course it is not true, but they try to exploit our sense of total dissatisfaction. Pessimism just appeals to people, pessimists win the arguments because of human nature. Basically, we are not contented with life. And we are completely obsessed with anything that could go wrong, so we willingly accept these arguments.
Secondly, as Johan Norberg said, “we confuse our personal and sometimes physical deterioration with the world ”. Many people consider that “the golden era” of their life was when they were growing up. When people were young, the world seemed to be exiting and safe enough, because they did not worry about the future, did not pay the bills and so on. But really there is no evidence that such a time had ever existed. Then, when they grew up and had kids, they started to think about all things that could go wrong. And therefore people think that everything was better previously. It is psychological feature of human thinking, a kind of nostalgia that makes people think about past moments of their life as if they were the best. We forget how much technology and innovation have changed our world and we look to the past through rose-colored glasses.
Thirdly, if we step back and examine the data, it’s clear that life is better today for the majority of people than at any previous time in history. What is it that driven an improvement in living standards? That is innovation in technologies, in our behavior, in a way how we organize our society. The progress has been remarkable: the improvements in health and longevity, the breadth of entertainment available and the opportunities to travel… And of course, the correct answer on the question “when would you like to have been born?” is “now”. The world is getting better in all ways  and we should not miss the actual movement of progress, technological and otherwise. 
In conclusion, I want to claim that it is our choice how to relate to the future, and we should carefully think before we choose one side or another. Some say that pessimism is dangerous, as it’s the emotions of fear and nostalgia that are fertile breeding grounds for populist demagogues. Others argue that too optimistic view can blind us to the real threats facing our freedoms and democracy . But nobody could deny that the progress will be continued, so we should keep the faith in the future and try to look ahead in optimistic way.
