     All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they are before
     In the modern world we all consciously or unconsciously note that the changes of languages are taken place. Each language reshapes so rapidly that sometimes these shifts arise some panic and alarming moods in a society among those who admit that these shifts are disastrous. These moods dispose them to state the decline of language in comparison to the form they used to set as the standard. They mostly say about the damage and the loss of the language, commonly meaning and reasoning about their vernacular. However, some people argue with this point of view. I would like to develop my arguments against the motion and to substantiate my point of view in the following reflections on this topic. 
   Firstly, we could think about the definition of the language, its characteristics and the purposes for which it was created for. The language is a living thing. By analogy with a river, it flows and dynamically develops keeping pace with the changes and progress in our life. There is no doubt that our life have changed dramatically comparing to the older times. Under this context, it makes almost impossible to think that the language should have not changed even a bit. Taking into account the progress in different parts of life, it can be hardly possible to express the new phenomena in a society, new scientific inventions and other things which are relevant nowadays, but were unknown before. Sometimes there is no way to express these notions with old words. So, the first point is that the language is developing and reshaping in the essential way adjusting to the changes in our lives, so one could regard this changes as a progressive development instead of decline. 
      Secondly, one of the most popular and sensitive topics under discussion are the language of the Internet, abuse of borrowings, jargon, the proliferation of abuse and vernacular words. Bearing this in mind, some people suppose that the language is going to the dogs. However, I would like to argue that our modern life is very fast. Therefore, there is a need in expressing our ideas and sharing information in a very conciseness manner, in other words, we need to be very brief and laconic in words. It happens mostly because of lack of time and an abundance of information. From this perspective we can also think about the differences in command of language in diverse society groups. These groups can be defined by the type of their social class (high, middle or low), gender, professional occupation, the place of birth or other meaningful factors. Also, one can speak about lowering the quality of language. For instance, A-level standards are going down if students do not cope with them, the same is happening with the language. It can be explained by the problem of popularization of education among more people. The other reason for this phenomenon could be identified as the dramatic changes in our society due to technological progress. It should be admitted that new generations are dealing with different  education systems and its formatsfrom what they used to be. For instance, they learn more information through videos and pictures because of IT technologies. Our grandparents had no idea on what iPhones and iPads are, they had no computers in help for their learning process. So, modern young people process even more information than their parents used to do, but the format of this information and the language as well have also drastically changed.
      Thirdly, there is the problem that some words which had one meaning have another meaning nowadays. However, it is often easy to guess the meaning under the context or to learn them from the open sources or your circle of friends. Moreover, isn’t it a good thing to be able to refresh the language in order to make it more up-to-date? The language is the way people communicate, so it is normal to make changes to it if it becomes irrelevant to use some words. Today no one speaks the language of dead white mean, as it is often said. We need to invent something new everytime in order to replicate ideas in more perfect form. 
     Also there is a point of view that every native speaker already knows the conventions of grammar because there is an instinct to learn some basic rules of using grammar correctly. The children learn these particularities very fast and without a deep thought of its formal rules and sophisticated language structure. 
    Discussing the problem of employment, I would doubt that learning new words and grammatical rules will somehow create the obstacles to get a job. On the contrary, sometimes it is very useful to know about the changes in language and new words in order to understand the jokes, the sense of your partners’ speeches and the current context. It does not mean that people who speak modern language are not intelligent or illiterate. 
    In addition, there is a separation among the linguists into prescriptivists and descriptivists. Prescriptivism and descriptivism are contrasting approaches to grammar and usage, particularly to how they can be taught. Both of them are concerned with the state of a language — descriptivism with how it's used, prescriptivism with how it should be used. Under the context of this topic, I suppose both of them have their reasons and strong arguments. But it seems that descriptivists are being more realistic. People are able to change the language because they own it, not on the contrary. If there is a reasonable need in changes, then let them be. 
    In conclusion I would like to state, that this problem is ambiguous. I suppose my arguments are relevant to all languages, because the problem concerns all of them. Taking into account all arguments for and against the motion, I encourage to be realistic to inevitable changes of language which must be regarded as progressive and to speak against the motion. 
