All Languages nowadays are becoming Inferior to what they were like before
            Language is a divine gift to the human race. This tool is only used by human beings to communicate with each other effectively. No other creatures are capable of communicating effectively in the same way that we do.  Therefore, all nations care for their languages, serve it, teach it to their children and exert effort to preserve it from decay and replacement by other language, as each nation sees its identity, culture and history through its language.  
	All languages are subject to development, evolution and change. As such no language is static and fixed. Such change may entails interaction and intertwining with other languages due to contact situations and the various implications that such contact may bring into any specific language. Such contact often brings change in usage, vocabulary as well as loose structures which may be incorrect if we weigh such structures against the basic rules of grammar. 
	In the case of English language, and according to the current usage, one can surely say that there are so many types of English around the world, whether spoken or written. This has become very explicit after the appearance of the social media and the open communication capabilities and boards that we see all way around over the web. 
	This has let so many people to show their disdain and even their anger over specific situations and usage which in their views is quite unacceptable.  In the past half century or so, however, this situation has produced a serious quarrel, political as well as linguistic, with two combatant parties: the prescriptivists, who were bent on instructing us in how to write and speak; and the descriptivists, who felt that all we could legitimately do in discussing language was to say what the current practice was. This dispute is the subject of “The Language Wars: A History of Proper English” by the English journalist Henry Hitchings, a convinced descriptivist.1. Other people such as H. W. Fowler, being a retired schoolteacher, he wrote a Dictionary. Fowler’s true subject is a set of two general principles, clarity and unpretentiousness, which he felt should govern all use of language. The book’s fame derives from the articles he wrote in relation to those matters—“genteelism,” “mannerisms,” “irrelevant allusion,” “love of the long word,” to name a few.2
	The main purpose of all the disputes around the nature of the correct language, and in this case English is to set some kind of clarity and to provide correct parameters and measurements so that people can use them. 
	On the other hand, and more recently, this issue of language has gain momentum and brought into focus in a number of debates, of which is the video which represents two conflicting currents or views. 
         One party, and specifically, the one for the motion, the BBC commentator (the first speaker) put it very clearly in his argument that, the overall purpose is to  support a tendency of basic grammar tools which help us communicate clearly and effectively as the primary function of language is communication and understanding between people. He said you can't communicate without the basic knowledge of rules and these rules are provided by the Grammar. As such, he supports the idea of learning basic grammar tools which is essential for any language communication. I do support this view and I'm in complete agreement with the first speaker as his views seem to be logical and convincing. 
	On the other hand, the second speaker, Oliver Kamm, who is a commentator, said that language is about the way human beings communicate and that that language is an instinct in every native speaker. This is true but it does not mean that we can go without basic grammar role and coin language as we like! It seems odd to leave the issue of general rules of grammar to each individual alone. I really don't agree with the second speaker and I believe that, having basic rules to regulate language usage is not something strange. 
	As conclusion, it is true that there are so many issues and implications relating to our use of language, but in spite of this, and as long as there are an overall agreed upon basic rules governing language system, I believe that the idea of inferiority only exists in the minds of those who believe in it.  



References:
1. The English Wars:  The battle over the way we should speak By Joan Acocella

2. ibid
