There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays.

Nowadays we watch on TV, read in newspaper and via the internet lots of frightening and frustrating news, that make us feel pessimistic about the future. However, if we look back to the past it becomes obvious that past present is much better. That controversial facts confuse us, so today there is not common opinion about is there more cause for pessimism or for optimism about the future of the world nowadays.
Carter Phipps, an author and journalist, during his book tour noticed, that many people are quite pessimistic. The most popular problems that scare people are climate change, economic difficulties, terrorism, poverty and inability of governments to respond to these significant issues. However, Phipps thinks that pessimism may be caused by media influence. Facts show how much technology and industry have already transformed human culture for the better and optimism is the only rational conclusion to be drawn from the trajectory of history.
In support of this idea Matt Ridley, one of the UK’s most popular science writers, said how people's views are far from the facts, because the believe in first information they see: they can believe that global poverty has doubled over the last 20 years, but in fact it has halved. He also noticed well-known fact: “media only tell bad news: when an airplane doesn’t crush we don’t report it.” 
Ridley’s optimism is not based on their personality or character, it’s based on the data, and data provide us with really optimistic information about constantly raising living standards. For example, child mortality decreased by 2/3 during last 50 years, and this make him feel optimism about the future.
Johan Norberg, author and documentary filmmaker, also said that pessimists are wrong. For example, they said that ancient Greece was majestic but now situation is awful, but Norberg has a counterexample: poor countries now look like rich countries 200 years ago. Life expectancy was shorter, living standards was lower, so nobody can deny that obvious progress. He is terrified when he reads news, but data and statistics make him optimistic.
The only speaker who was for the motion, David Runciman, professor of Politics at Cambridge University, said that past progress is not a good reason to think that progress will continue. Optimists think that the present is better than the past, so the future have to be better than the present. However, progress is not steady and not regular process. Now we can see short period of progress, but it’s nothing compared with whole history, so we do not know how it will end.
Runciman said that we know what causes innovation and we know what causes disasters, and now disasters are possible. He said that present government is unpredictable and scaring. However, in his opinion, government is worst thing. The biggest risk is wild optimism, which makes us think that all problem is solvable and we do not need good politics, but next step of the progress may be good as well as awful.
To sum up I want to notice that opponents of Runciman answered his doubts: humanity passed through lots of disasters and destructive policy, but even during hard period of history progress continued. These arguments inspire confidence and give hope to see great future, however every day we face with new danger: new viruses, weapons and unpredictable policy. Because of these facts, I cannot fell absolute optimism, but now I fell much more optimistic than pessimistic. In addition, to protect my optimistic opinion usually I tried to find put some statistics or data every time I read sad news, and after that, I can say that big picture looks good enough. 
