All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were like before.
The problem of the change in the usage of languages is becoming more urgent than ever, judging by the widespread public discussions of the issue. There is an opinion that languages are becoming inferior to what they were like before, which is still been argued about.
I would like to start with the argument in favor of the motion, which is that there are political reasons for the degradation of languages, due to the fact that totalitarian regimes have to control people and they do it through controlling the language, just as it was shown by Orwell in his «1984». The politicians tend to remove from the language the words they don’t want people to use. Another important point is that even though the languages have to change due to the evolution of the humanity itself and the appearance of new inventions, which require names, there is the tendency of fetishizing the abuse of the languages, pouring them with borrowings, mispronounced words and other types of mistakes, later becoming standard, which is considered to be disrespectful. 
Those who disagree with the motion, tend to say that language is a river, uncontrollable and constantly changing. Thinking of languages becoming inferior because of various types of their constant development is the same as believing that there is only one form of language that needs to be taught. It is some kind of a golden standard which does not tolerate ambiguity. Moreover, it is considered to be anti-utopic. Another argument against the motion is that languages, as they are, cannot become inferior simply because of their a priory enduring complexity. The languages are constantly evolving, mixing and borrowing because of globalization factor, and even if one language may lose some words from the dictionary, another one will become more complex.
I stand against the motion and believe that nobody can measure the inferiority of a single language, not to mention the whole bunch of them. Languages are just as they are, getting simplified, complicated but either way evolving, which cannot be prevented, changed or measured.
