All languages nowadays are becoming  inferior to what they were like before

Speaking and writing correct English are the hallmark of an intelligent person. No one who cares about language wants to be caught splitting an infinitive or muddling up “infer” and “imply”.  No one would dare describe either as lacking in grey matter or being insensitive to good English. The speakers for the motion Simon Heffer and John Humphrys thought, that our language can take care of itself, and that it certainly doesn’t need a bunch of self-appointed rule-book sticklers to make others feel insecure about how they speak and write. Good style matters, they argue, and can be taught but the pedants should stop confusing their pet peeves with “correct” English.
One of the main things learn language theory is that language is in a constant state of flux, continuously adapting and evolving to meet the contextual needs of it is users. We are communicate each other using different language choices. Neither of these choices are inherently better than other, they are just different examples of  language.  English is a highly adaptive language which continually evolves in order to allow it to be an effective communicative medium. Languages never stop developing, their is no point where you can assume that a language has reached a point of perfection, so no we can no longer create new words and phrases. Languages didn’t develop under strict guidelines. To enforce a conservative, static approach towards English will strangle the expressiveness of the language. As soon as a language stops doing so, it becomes endangered. A bit odd, this, given that no language has ever stopped evolving, except in the case where all the speakers have been wiped out, in which case it no longer exists, or they have all been forced to speak their conquerors language, in which case ditto. Even so-called dead languages, like Classical Latin or Hebrew continued to evolve among the scholars or priests who used them.
The speakers against the motion Mary Beard and Oliver Kamm have used personal insults “grumpy old men”, “pedant”, “stickler”. Both of them have made uncalled-for speculations about the other side’s private life.
We may disagree with the contexts of words, which is even more reason to see the ambiguity of the language and why proscribing it is both useless and counterproductive. Language has always changed throughout time, both in grammar and meaning. and proscribing grammar and forms are unnatural and sticking to rules that are arbitrary show obstinate disregard for languages mutability. As for the in context speech, although partly correct, is also told from the point of view of a privileged white man who doesn't consider the nuance of how insulting words are used for buttressing group dynamics. For example, “nigga” is always considered derogatory and an epithet, even among black people, and although said among friends, other derogatory things are also said which are also always viewed as derogatory but are used to display intimacy and trust among friends, which I strongly suspect is also happening in this situation. Pendant and stickler are used in their proper contexts without any insult, they may be taken as insults or compliments based on their basic meanings, but nothing more.
I think that the more of people consider to be a good understanding language is a comprehensive knowledge of the framework and rules and the ability to play with those rules. What we do not do today is teach those role.
At the end of the video all speakers agreed every real point that was brought up.

