There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays.
I absolutely agree with the motion. 
As David Runciman has put it: the belief that future is going to be better than present constitutes optimism. But is it? Can you really be sure about that? 
There is no doubt that present is better than the past. But future?.. Matt Ridley argues that people often “underestimate” the advances that humanity has achieved in the recent centuries and even decades: technological and industrial breakthroughs, longer lifespan, higher standards of living; poverty rate has halved, child mortality rate has dropped significantly and we are about to get rid of malaria. Well, so far so good!.. said the man as he was falling from the roof and his neighbor asked him how he was doing.
The picture on the left is the work of the renowned artist and printmaker Albrecht Durer. The four figures constitute the Biblical Four Horsemen of Apocalypse (the Book of Revelation). They are War, Famine, Pestilence and Death. The four horsemen are merely a metaphor that (and I do not want to sound too melodramatic) remains to be up-to-date throughout millennia (the Book of Revelation dates back to 96 A.D.!). People have come up with wheel, then they invented the steam engine, then the electricity, then the penicillin, then human rights, then nuclear energy, then internet etc. Century after century human’s life has improved invention by invention, discovery by discovery, step by step. 
However the most astonishing thing is that notwithstanding all of those achievements the four horsemen are still riding the Earth. Despite all the efforts to maintain peace there is always war somewhere in the world (Syria, Ukraine), despite the abundance of food there are still countries that suffer from famine and starvation (Yemen, Sudan, Somalia), despite the advances in medicine and efforts to cure every disease there are still incurable diseases (cancer, AIDS) all of which eventually lead to death. 
And the saddest part is that as it seems the more efforts are thrown at fighting those horsemen the more powerful and destructive (than before) their counter attack is. And those attacks are of the character that cannot be predicted! These are just some of the most illustrative examples: the WWI was followed by the WWII, now Governments all over the world fight terrorism that has many faces and no territorial limits; plague that emptied the Europe was effectively fought, but then the 20th century brought AIDS that cannot be cured. And to cap it all the nature has turned against us and announced its own war – the climate change.
Can you still be sure that future will be better than the present? Can you still be optimistic about it? The skepticism towards the future (sometimes even fear of it) cannot be reduced to simple nostalgia (as Johan Noberg argues) and it is not always the case of a childhood psychological trauma. Terrorism, AIDS, wars are objective facts. 
Some might say that you perceive these facts in a pessimistic way, for terrorism and wars are effectively fought by states that put together their efforts via international organizations and other peace-making institutions; AIDS as opposed to what had been thought is not getting worse, but rather “getting better”. Well in that case, so far so good!
But what another life challenge you will have to deal with in 15 – 30 – 60 years from now? And if you face it, will you be able to tackle it?
Matt Ridley says that there is infinite number of ideas that can be used to innovate and improve our life as well as to deal with problems that appear. Those are very optimistic words, so let’s then just hope that in the next 15 – 30 – 60 etc. years there still will be someone to come up with those innovative ideas. 
