All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were before
Nothing is constant, everything is changing   or being changed.  The human society is developing very rapidly now, people’s  values can be  different  from what they were  50   or 200 years ago.  As well as the values, the language is  changing.  Although I welcome  these changes that happen  in our society I do not  like all the processes  which  occurs  to a  language. So  I share the opinion that nowadays languages are inferior to what they were before.
The books of 17th-20th centuries  we read show the beauty and diversity  of vocabulary of the classical languages. It shows that people of the past were more engaged in the way how to communicate and convey their thoughts. Today it is enough  a few hundred words for an ordinary person in an everyday life. So what it can mean? Maybe we just  do not want to think much and try to  do everything faster  and  put much meaning to fewer  words.  It may be connected to the fact that the rhythm of modern life is much more rapid.  But it also shows that today languages are  poorer than they were  in the past.
In a spoken language people often use informal speech and slang words and I find it normal.   I do not want to look like a snob, but in my opinion written language should not include slang –word.    I would completely agree with the saying of  John R. Rickford, a distinguished professor, who tells us that  «language learning and use would be virtually impossible without systematic rules and restrictions». If there were not any rules, as  prescriptivists argue ,   then how  would we understand the all the works of our great ancestors, learn a new language, explain something and be sure that a person gets exactly what he hears in a right way.  
In my view it is wonderful that the language is changing and in this question  I have the same point of view that John Humphrys, the first speaker does :   transformations that happens to it shows that it is alive. But such transformations should not contradict to the  fundamental rules  which already exist in  the language. We should respect the language that we were left and try to enrich it  with new words, rules and ideas. But in my opinion is wrong not  to  take care of its fundamental rules and cross out everything that has been  collected and systematized by previous generation. 
