Indeed the most striking question to be asked nowadays is how we should perceive the future and what to expect from the future? The question has become so important particularly nowadays because the human civilization has gone through the astonishingly large amount of lessons both positive and negative and now we are certainly in the position to give the answer. 
I strongly believe that the world has never been so unpredictable as it is now and, being personally very optimistic about the human development, I think that we cannot say for sure that the world will be better in the future than it is now. And my main reason to think so is the very simple concept – relativity.
Indeed Matt Ridley and Johan Norberg provided us with some persuasive data which is hard to argue about – we have a higher life expectancy, we reduced poverty on the globe by 80%, we won the battles with many illnesses in the world and overall we never had the world so good. However, if we think about it, we simply managed to overcome the challenges that we faced in the past, the challenges which, if not won, would be able to harm the human civilization. What we did is just like any other species, acting instinctively, went through the hardships which could destroy us as the civilisation. We simply did what we were supposed to in order to survive and at the same time we could not have won the most dramatic and most terrifying battles of this world. Matt Ridley is right that we survived the worst but at what price?
The best example is undoubtedly the Second World War and the very idea of the Third Reich that one nation can be indeed better than the other and to preserve the human race we should get rid of the vast part of the world population. Who expected such idea to have come in the middle of the 20th century? By that time, people already had the quite elaborated knowledge about ethics, morality and many of them obviously were aware of Plato’s ‘Ethics”or Kant’s categorical imperative which both tell us what is good or bad and according to which maxima we should live to guarantee the prosperity. The moral standards seemed (just as they seem right now) so strong and so unshakable that no one could even have imagined that one crazy idea would turn the world on its head. However, it happened. As the famous Jewish political theorist Hannah Arendt said in her “Banality of Evil”, the morality – the strongest thing in this world - turned out to be fragile and unstable and easily reversible. 
Where are the guaranties that another crazy idea will not put all we already achieved into jeopardy? David Runciman – the pessimist speaker - was more than right saying that all risks that things will go wrong (especially in politics) remain but simply to a less extent than in the past. That is why I argue that all achievements we have now are relative. 
At the same time, this optimism-pessimism confrontation should not be looked solely through the aspect of politics and political philosophy. I admit that supporting the pessimist side inevitably means taking many things in this world for granted (which is wrong). So I find it very important to outline that the good that we have today is amazing: the humanism is on its top, we are able to provide the best standards of living to disabled people or people who were born with some physical defects; we have a freedom of choice, a freedom of love, a freedom of life in whichever way we prefer it. The technologies have made our life so unrecognisably good that world lost its boundaries and people are gradually moving towards the global unity. 
What is more, both optimist speakers have their point saying that the perception of the world and future is disfeatured by the media which only demonstrates the dramatic and bad events of our life on the globe and ignores mostly the positive changes and achievements. That is why people have the pessimistic approach to the future. 
But what worries me a lot is that all these achievements hide the very powerful destructive potential and the fact that this destructive power does not work now – does not mean it will not work in future. To sum up I think that the challenges we face today are extremely hard: the religious militarism, extremism, the global warming, the climate change, the cancer expansion. I am not saying that we are not able to win these “wars” again – I simply say that we can hardly make it without the outrageously large number of victims and losses. That’s what makes me pessimistic about the future and very grateful to the present.
