Motion: Between you and I the English language is going to the dogs.
We live in a fast changing world and every second we try to make our life easier and simpler. It applies to everything: from our lifestyle to the way of our communication. The issue around the use of language and the manner of communication becomes very hot and debatable. Some people think that there are no doubts that the English speakers use a full diversity of the language, others consider that there is an impending danger that the English language especially its Grammar, spelling, etc., comes to an extinction.
I totally agree with the main idea of the motion that over the years the language becomes poor and poor. There are three main arguments which prove my suggestion. Firstly, the world is developing and the language too. So, there also increasingly appear new words mostly plague words or slang, which is used by teenagers. Mr. John Humphrys gives an example of a young and very poor unsophisticated black American kid who was very clever and magnificent knowledge of several foreign languages, but did not use grammar (prepositions in a particular case) in his everyday life, and when he tried to communicate with sophisticated students he looked silly. So, the moral is that we cannot communicate without a basic understanding of basic certain rules like grammar, for instance. Secondly, language becomes meaningless the politicians who are the face of the people. They try to abolish verbs in their speech, bringing a focus on nouns like “PROSPERITY”, “ACHIEVEMENT” to make us trusting in what the politicians believes. And thirdly, people in their everyday life start to substitute live communication for communication through gadgets. This leads to replacement of complex grammatical constructions by simpler one – make it what it means flexible - or shortening the word to one letter (like using in messages “u” instead of “you” , “r” instead of “are” and so on). Furthermore, people in HR ask while looking through enormous applications to pay attention on applicants` mistakes made in CVs and Cover Letters. So, people face difficulties when applying for a job or for a place at good university, and they do not get places there because they can`t write English properly. 
To sum up, we can see the tendency that languages becoming less clarity and the purpose for all people is to develop them. It is vital for nations to save the language and make it more complex. Choosing the way of communication will help to build relationship from one`s childhood to the end of the life. 



