There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays.
How by way of introduction I would go as far as to say that people have always imaged of what the future will look like. That is why there are a lot of futuristic books and films, both optimistic and pessimistic. But what does the real future holds for us? Will life in the future be better, worse or the same as now? 
Now, let’s look at the situation in one side. We have already seen major technological advances over the last fifty years and the next fifty years are going to be equally exciting, interesting and beautiful. For example, in near future time scientists will have created robots that will be doing all dangerous and difficult jobs. In addition, medicine technology will have conquered many diseases including AIDS and cancer and other horrible diseases.
And let’s look at the other side. A lot of people feel pessimistic about our future. They worry about the activity of terrorists and the possibility of nuclear wars. Another problem is our environment, which is in a sorry state. I am sure that people will be able control their weapons because everybody understands what disastrous consequences nuclear wars may have. Also we should think about draw-backs of car use. Yes, car the best way of travelling and we can not live without them but they are cause air pollution and they turn people into legless creature and this inactivity leads to serious diseases. May be in the future we will drive petrol-free cars, who knows.
Another thing that we should keep in mind is genetically modified crops. They have made a big splash recently. There is a possibility that introducing a gene into a plant may have an unexpected and negative impact on human health, for instance, it may create a new allergen and cause an allergic reaction in susceptible individuals. In addition, since some crops are modified using the DNA from viruses and bacteria, we may encounter new diseases. Moreover, GM crops may also pose a health risk to animals that eat them as they may be poisoned by built-in pesticides.
To sum up, I hope that we will drink purified water, recycle all our rubbish, drive non-pollution cars, develop know-how technology, eat healthy food, be friendly, never change climate and never use nuclear weapons. 
