There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays

Watching the video I didn’t find any attempt of speakers to give a definition of optimism and pessimism, so I decide to start with that. Optimism is a mental attitude—a happy belief that the outcome of some specific endeavor, or outcomes in general, will be good. And pessimism is a mental attitude as well. Pessimists anticipate undesirable outcomes from a given situation which is generally referred to as situational pessimism or believes that undesirable things are going to happen to them in life more than desirable ones. There is also a common idiom which is used to illustrate optimism versus pessimism is: a glass with water at the halfway point, where the optimist is said to see the glass as half full and the pessimist sees the glass as half empty. 
As for me, I treat myself to this type of people who says that the glass is half full, so I’m against the motion of debates. Sticking to that, I’m agree with Matt Ridley who’s main point was that people are more tend to talk and think about pessimistic things. In my opinion, it’s 100% true, but there is one interesting think which was not discussed. Naturally people are not pessimistic or optimistic, as Johan Norberg says, they are indifferent, but their environment turns them into pessimist or optimist. All this comes from mass media and through parents or friends hits the heads of children. So, let’s see what’s now popular on TV? Drama. Mostly, TV reports about crimes, crashes, murders, deaths, etc. 
Here’s comes the second point of Matt Ridley’s speech: politicians are pessimistic, and they push pessimistic thoughts in mass, because it’s the easiest way to get a reaction. The second good point and am agree again. Let’s look at Trump’s pre-election campaign, he specified only bad sides of USA and Obama’s strategy and get a decent amount of followers. And what’s scarier that it’s not only about Trump. There is the same situation in France as well. It’s some kind of pessimistic infection which is spreading extremely fast through social networks or Internet.
However, let’s look at the other side: David Runciman noticed that we can't say whether everything will be OK or not only according to our past experience. But let’s be honest, because that’s the only way we can predict something. Moreover, his point is that future is unknown, but it doesn’t mean bad. That’s only mean that we can’t predict what will happened and I strongly believe it all about our rapid speed of progress and not about pessimistic opportunities.
In conclusion, let’s move to my point of view: I believe that mankind is on a right way. We are developing extremely fast and according to Moore’s law will develop much faster. We can find ourselves on high-levels of health, wealth, education and medicine and I think that nobody from our ancestors couldn't even imagine such a decent life. So our future is supposed to be more optimistic, but as Matt Ridley said, it doesn’t mean that we need to lay back and relax. There are a lot of things we need to be worried about, for example: bureaucracy, terrorism, low level of spirituality and culture and so on. People need to work a lot till our bright future will come, because it can’t be good only if we’re optimistic. We need to face and deal with global issues together.
