Optimism and pessimism are two opposing terms and they reflect a variety of individual understanding of the surrounding situations, events and problems that engulf humanity from time to time. Sometimes history, politics and overall economic situations reflect on the psychological state of each individual or community and will definitely render him/it as optimistic or pessimistic.  
With regard to the motion topic (There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays), and based on the point of views provided by the first speaker, that there are a lot of points and progress made to be optimistic about. He mentioned that the danger of AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome) has drastically reduced compared to the last quarter of the 20th century.  This happens out of actual human progress in the field of science and the degree of health awareness on the part of the general public. 
Also he mentioned that other fatal epidemic disease such as malaria has been downed to 60% compared to the previous situations when it was threatening a large number of tropical areas.  Also a good progress has been made to reduce global poverty by using technology and advanced tools to increase productivity and increase global participation via globalization and productive cooperation.  
He also mentioned that child immortality rates have shown progress compared to previous years of the 20th century. A lot of issues that causes anxiety to human beings (nuclear wars) were only made by the news. In his (first speaker) opinion, the news only tends to mention things that were or are going wrong. Also he mentioned that some opinion polls are not correct when compared to actual figures. He also mentioned that at the turn of the 20th century (1999) when a computer was not able to read a specific figure, the news reported that the human civilization is at a fatal juncture but that turned to be false and a lot of progress has been achieved in almost all walks of life.
On the other hand, and in my opinion, the second speaker who is pessimistic about what is going on did not provide sufficient facts to support his points. He mainly based his arguments on the Swedish history which can't be taken as criteria to the situations throughout our planet. Also he relies heavily on history and on the terrifying news on some parts of the world that makes him pessimistic.   
The issue of the debate is to compare the views of the speakers about global problems, such global poverty, immortality rates, nuclear disasters epidemic diseases and the issues that threaten our well-being as humans on this globe. 
As mentioned in his book, (Progress or Pessimism: How Should We Think About the Future?) Carter Phipps was right to raise the following worries and concerns:
"Between the challenges posed by climate change, the economic difficulties of developed and developing nations, the dangerous mix of technology and terrorism, the ongoing poverty and suffering of billions of our fellow humans, and the seeming inability of governments to respond to these significant issues and others, people find themselves losing faith in our collective future. They are pessimistic, not that we could respond to the issues that beset us, but that we will. We may have the ability, but they observe that we lack the political or social will and global solidarity to make the choices necessary to put us on a positive track forward." 
To sum up, and reference to the above challenges and the various worries put forward by Carter Phipps, the reality around us shows that UN and other global institutions as well as government have been doing well to tackle most of the mentioned worries. Also I believe that the first speaker has been very objective and he provided a lot of figures which make real sense. One of the important points is that people opinions are shaped by news and the news, as he (first speaker) said does not report when a plan has not crashed! This means that the news rely heavily on the bad side of the story and magnifies it in a way that may make individuals or even a whole group of population sad and pessimistic.   

In conclusion, and taking into consideration all the points and views mentioned by the debaters as well as other participants, in addition to the fact that in today's world, where the percentage of literacy and awareness is on the rise,  most governments are taking steps to fight corruption, improve performance in many sensitive fields and are aware of the global worries and are cooperating with each other to tackle and treat such worries . Therefore, I believe that there is a spacious room for optimism and better future for our world as long as there is innovations and combinations of good human ideas that will be able to provide solutions to our problems and crisis. So let's look forward and be optimistic.
