Many people think that all languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were like before but others think otherwise. The greatest debates happen about saving the proper English because it became a global language and it is often incorrectly used. For example, many English speakers have felt that the language was going to the dogs. However, other languages are suffering too; some of them are vanishing, some are being transformed by English. The current situation is not a new thing but nowadays the Language Wars are huge because of the media and public discussion on the social nets.
	Let us consider what the arguments for this statement are; we would call this position the linguistic rigidity. The first thing that needs to be said is that proponents of this side suggest that we have to preserve and protect our languages. It is undeniable that language is a cultural heritage but we all are always facing the bad mistakes not just small things like “disinterested”/ “uninterested” but big things like “who”/“whom” – “may already have been lost.” Languages are in danger and often the problem is just illiteracy that should be gotten rid of.
The second reason for the linguistic rigidity is the esthetic point of view, the best speaker is a person who uses the language perfectly and properly, knows the rules, has a brilliant pronunciation. To be honest we all get pleasure to hear the speech of such great speakers. The good example is the speakers of “Intelligence Squared”, even if someone is against this motion he/she would use proper English anyway.
More than that, various linguistic books or language dictionaries are not tyrannical, their authors really wanted clear, singing prose, much more than the language rules, and so they bent these rules. “The Language Wars: A History of Proper English” can be a great example. It is a crucial book by the English journalist Henry Hitchings, a convinced descriptivist. Also, very important volume of the twentieth century was “A Dictionary of Modern English Usage” (1926) written by H. W. Fowler. 
However, the other side of the coin is that languages change but it that does not mean they are in decline. The proponents of this side call their opponents “the complainers”, fogies and snobs. Indeed followers of the linguistic rigidity are usually scholars and they just protect their field of study. The language is something that is permanently changing because of the number of causes.
Firstly, they say that we do not have to deny changes. For instance, previously people said the same bad things about telegraph and television as they say now about that digital technology has a pernicious effect on language. However, it is not pernicious effect, it is the new conditions – digital technology, democracy, immigration etc.
Secondly, the newly popular theory of structural linguistics held, in part, that you couldn’t legislate language. It had its own, internal rules. The most you could do was to catalogue them. Proponents of changeable languages believe that language is an interest, the way that human society communicates, it is a convention, not a strict system of rules, so and it should be free.
