All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were like before
Gabriel Garcia Marquez in 1997 said that we should simplify grammar before grammar finally simplified us. Nowadays languages are mixed, words are changing the meanings. 
I think that it isn’t true that the languages are becoming more inferior than before. 
First, the languages are means of communication primarily. It is the main task, and I think a language should meet the needs of society. It’s not bad for a language. It is naturally.
For example, read the first sentence of Lord’s Prayer in Old English and the translation. Old-English: ‘Fæder ūre þū þe eart on heofonum, sī þīn nama ġehālgod’. Translation: ‘Father of ours, thou who art in heavens, be thy name hallowed’. We can see that phrase is not become inferiorly, but become simply to write and to pronounce.
Language is the way we have ability to replicate the ideas. Language allow us don’t invent everything a new every time.
Second, what does ‘inferior’ mean? Let’s referring to the Webster’s Dictionary.
There are a few meanings:
(1)	Less important or valuable; subordinate; underneath; beneath.
(2)	Poor or mediocre.
As for first, I think it is obviously that language is not losing its value. We also talk, read the books, watch movies, learn something and language is not becoming useless.
As for second, while you can express everything you want, the language you speak cannot be poor. Other questions about human’s lexicon. May be real problem is people don’t want to know more words and don’t want to use all riches that language offer.
Third, people live together. We communicate, trade, share of experience. In modern world where you can to talk with a stranger without living home the language boundaries are erasing more quickly than before. Now you can learn some language using new technologies and new possibilities, and then use your knowledge in everyday life. Some linguists think that neologisms are enriched the languages.
Fourth, nowadays there is a lot of debate about languages. Joan Accoella wrote in her article “The English Wars” that there we have serious quarrel: some says, that we need hard rules and people who will be instructing us how to write and speak, and other says, that we can say what our current practice is. This dispute shows us that problems of language is excites different people and I think it is good.
In defense of opposite side, we can try to see how the languages have developed for years. But how I said before it is normal: good word always will be in-demand. The decrease of the reduced and monophthonization of diphthongs says that humanity always try to simplify everything what was uncomfortable to they including even sounds. Or more close example: the appearance of slang, vernacular words and abbreviations. Besides, a lot of languages has variety of dialects. As for English, a lot of people think that American English is bad variant of English. On my English classes even teaches says that. Now I don’t think so. On the contrary, it says that English can be different. So Is not wealth in diversity?
