People are divided into two polar types  - optimists and pessimists - according to their state of mind and attitude to different circumstances. Representatives of the former group always keep hoping for the best, struggle to find out benefits and positive points of unfavourable, even disastrous situations; they keep strong for long time and use their sense of humor to react to failures. Pessimists, on the contrary, tend to be grim and melancholic whether there is a reason or not, they are constantly in low spirits or their mood is as changeable as weather. We have watched “The New Optimism Session” with Matt Ridley, Johan Norberg, David Runciman and Laura Kuenssberg present at the activity as speakers, and there was a discussion about optimists and pessimists nowadays. To a big surprise for both speakers and viewers of the video, in the big hall there were about a half of pessimists in the audience! In the text “Progress or Pessimism: How Should We Think About the Future?” by Carter Phipps the narrator shares with us his surprising results of observations during six month of travelling and dealing with “people from all ages and walks of life”. He was astonished at having met a big number of pessimists within a short period of time and at almost the same places. This leads both Mr. Phipps and readers to the thought that a quite large percentage of the mankind are pessimists (but there are no exact data, how many). Are nowadays or will conditions be worse in the future, causing people to be more pessimistic and the percentage of pessimists to increase, or, on the contrary, are there more bright sides in different spheres of human life in our new time, showing that it is high time for pessimists to reconsider their attitude to the circumstances people are now surrounded by, and to change their mind and begin thinking and feeling more optimistic?
The motion of our current task is the following: There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays. As for my own vision, I am against the motion mentioned above and I think about it quite the other way around. I agree with the speaker of the Session who makes a comparison between the world nowadays and the world which used to be a century ago. He mentions that at some periods of earlier history people suffered from famine, poverty, unemployment, child mortality rates were extremely high and life expectancy was up to the age of 30s in average. By the end of the previous century, as the speakers concluded, there was a sufficient progress in improving of humanity’s life quality and in conditions people live in – the levels of unemployment and famine have significantly dropped, child mortality dropped from over a half of the number of all the infants taken together in the world to only 10% of those, and the age of life expectancy increased from 30 to 70 years! As far as I am concerned, during the great 20th century there were significant and very positive changes in such spheres as technology and especially medicine. Due to the latter the rate of people’s mortality reduced and the life expectancy grew, there are numerous medicines against different diseases, moreover, one of the diseases that had killed large communities in some preceding centuries – the small pox – was completely eliminated in 1979. As for the progress in technology, with the invention of IT and the Internet there reduced the level of unemployment and at the same time there appeared very comfortable and profitable opportunities for establishing business connections between people all around the world, and as a result people can exchange their experiences with people from different countries, and such communications have a very favorable impact on the world economy. And as for one of the reasons mentioned in the text by Carter Phipps, i.e. climate change, in my opinion, it is the most irrational reason for being pessimistic, as the weather does not depend on people in majority of cases (supposedly it can be caused by some chemical or technical factors due to people’s activity, but it is no way the fault of every ordinary person). However, as soon as the humankind has invented umbrellas, lightning-conductors and central hearing, people have opportunities to adopt to different kinds of weather and therefore there is no point to look at it pessimistically and to turn other activities down.
To sum it up, people living nowadays and having access to the technology, numerous opportunities to get vital knowledge and skills and therefore to make a good career and have a good job, not suffering from famine, non-disabled and living in quite good conditions should be optimists and feel happy at all events. As for the life in future, it is impossible to predict how it will be in even at least nearest 5 years, as life is unpredictable, but there must be still a hope in a good and lucky future, along with that, people should do their best to make their life as comfortable, safe and favorable as possible. Nonetheless, the mankind’s skills and knowledge that played a significant and even crucial role in improving people’s life conditions in the larger part of the world within a century will no way run their course in the future and will likely be transmitted to further and further generations.
