There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays

The humanity is developing very rapidly and for the last century it has progressed in science, medicine and technology more than for all centuries before. Many people think that such speed of development is too fast and  they see nothing  but technological catastrophes,   further developing of cyber-terrorism, appearing of new diseases and overpopulation of the planet. Others see more advantages than disadvantages from such a rapid development of  science and society. Honestly speaking,  I would rather  good things than bad ones happen it the future. . So I am more optimistic than pessimistic about the future of our world. 
It is rather a popular theme for debate today, so to see if other people share my point of view I watched the debates of  respected professors and scientists who see the future of the world quite different. Though I do not  support pessimistic mood of  the speaker David Runchiman, I agree with him, that if  the humanity was successful and quite happy in the past, it does not mean  that the same would be in the future. I stand for so called « realistic optimism».  The humanity has  a lot of problems now, but I believe that we are able to solve them or at least make them be not dangerous for our living on the planet. Let’s consider some of them. For example,  some scientists claim that  rapid  developing of industry may end in complete exhaustion of natural resources, destroy of  ecosystem of our fragile planet. But on the other hand, other investigators say the epoch of heavy industry and using natural resources as fuel  will be coming to the end in this century.  Using alternative energy is becoming normal in developed countries and some of them have  stopped using natural fuel (like the UK completely refused using coal  in 2016).  Careful attitude to our dear planet may prolong our happy staying  here. Some other problem that comes to mind when I  think about the future is overpopulation, poorness and hunger in most of t of developing countries.  And it has come surprise to me that according to the first speaker Matt Ridley, global hunger halved last decades.  In my opinion, science and  modern technologies  may be a main  solution the problem of hunger. Even nowadays  when the resources are limited the humanity is able to  get food from 3D – printer and in my opinion  if  such technologies are more available in the future, we  will be able to overcome global hunger.  So I share the point of view of the authors that write about techno-inspired optimism.
But nevertheless I think that even technologies are not able to solve some  serious problems that are obvious in our society. For example this is the problem of terrorism that is a  thread  to our security.  And technologies may even help them in their terrible goals. The other problem is a thread of future  global and local wars because of politics and politicians’ will to have more power over other countries. I do not really know how to deal with these problems, but I believe that one day we will manage to  overcome these difficulties too. 
So  concluding everything that has been said above, I call for everyone to be more optimistic about our future. But at the same time we should be responsible for our actions and should predict what kind of consequences they may bring. It is our  common goal to  preserve our  planet as beautiful as it is now, to live in peace with each other and have a better life for future generations.
