All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were like before
Russia, China, Germany, Turkey Greece, Estonia, Ireland – these are the countries that underwent linguistic reform in the XXth century. The list is not exhaustive. Some countries merely changed minor details (e.g. Germany, Austria, Switzerland substituted several letters for other differently written letters), others however undertook more serious alterations (e.g. Russia and China “purified” their alphabets by excluding a handful of letters / characters and reforming the orthography). 
The principal aim of the reforms was to simplify the language for easier usage. Yet the utilitarian approach should implemented and revered only when the matter you are dealing with concerns the shape of the pan handle or the size of a training shoe. The matter much more complicated, sophisticated and important – and language is such a matter - shall not be judged or analyzed and of course tampered with based on considerations of mere convenience. Language is a unique cultural phenomenon. It encompasses the very history of the nation, all of its achievements and it failures. You can trace the history of the nation exploring the language just like you can trace the biological development of species by their fossils. 
As a result of Chinese language reform plenty of characters were dismissed. The romanization system of language was adopted. It made it easier to learn for foreigners but at the same time China lost a bit of its unique culture it managed to maintain throughout centuries. The same goes for Russia. Post-revolutionary language reform reduced the alphabet and simplified the orthography. The language became more convenient to learn and to write. But once again a bit of culture was lost.
You can say it is just a bit. No serious harm was done, was it? 
The teachings of great philosopher Confucius were written in “old” Chinese, the works of great Russian jurist Shershenevich were written in “old” Russian. Can you read them now? Well, maybe you can. But I personally heard students complaining about how hard it is to read through all those “yats” effectively leaving the very idea of finishing the book. You can always say that there is an adaptation or the “contemporary” edition of the book. If there is not now – just you wait.
But the main point is that altering the language you inevitably hinder the learning of works written in the “old” language. Plato and Aristotle are considered to be the founders of the modern philosophy and prophets of contemporary science. The language they used was the “old” Greek. The language they thought was the same “old” Greek. The language defined their mind. It was the tool they used to create those castles of thought we are admiring now.
Michelangelo did not use an axe to create David. He used chisel and cutter because he needed precision. Language you use is the same cutter. You simplify it – you make it blunt. Whatever you try to make with it later may be good, but it never will be David.
