All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were like before.
Have you ever read the book which was written many centuries ago? If yes, of course you’ve mentioned the differences between this book and what we can see in modern literature or morning press. It’s difficult to state, where the language is going to the dogs or not, but certainly I can say, language is changing and we can’t stop it.
Language is the greatest gifts or achievement of humanity, the thing that makes us what we are. Language is a tool for communication, which help us to interact to each other. It’s one of way to transfer an idea from the one head to another. And to make this process more effective the language should have special rules, which understandable for all. Sometimes we have difficulties connected with communication with people from different places and different ages, for example, well known special Australian English, or some words and phrases, used by elderly people. But despite this, the whole sense of speech is understandable, due to common rules and principles. Each language has a core – grammar and vast majority of vocabulary, which stays untouched through the time and what should be saved in future.
At the same time, language is the reflection of life, reflection of the period of history and inalienable part of culture. Linguists discovered that different nations have various vocabularies, with different set of words. For example, nations, which inhabit northern part of continent, have up to 20 words explaining such thing as snow. In languages of nations living on the coast or islands – many words explain the states of sea and so on and so for. The key idea is language reflect concepts that really matter in this time, or in this place. 
The same principle works not in geographic, but in time and social dimension. The most frequent argument for degradation of language is the poems and prose of well-known writers of the past, but the authors of the brilliant books was the best educated people of their time, from the richest families. They were elites. Does anybody wonder, what was the language of poor rural people? Did they communicate the same way, unfortunately, but I don’t think so. 
Nowadays, as I think, majority of claims related to degradation of language is addressed to the poorest part of society, who has low standard of live and as consequence without education. So now we have significantly more opportunities for education and self-education, labor market demand appropriate skills of speech and this all force people to better language, extend their vocabulary and use more complicated structures.
One more important thing is that in present time writers, directors are not afraid to use non-perfect language, as I think it used to earlier. They don’t try conceal it, they show real life, and as for me, it enriches movies and especially books, when character is described only with a pair of phrase, which he or she say, instead long text with explain him or her by author. 
 In conclusion, the language is like a river, it flows, it changes, it is getting different and till it could manage with its main function – to transfer ideas from one to another, it is alright, all the rest is matter of tastes.  
