“There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays.”

There are many readings for the same set of data for our evolution as human beings. Some people read the cultural growth and recession times by a pessimistic  mood while others believes that humanity after having tried different systems finally will converge to a stable and viable status for all of us and not for a small subset of us. People believe that there are more arguments in favor of pessimism, but I feel optimistic. Let me try to convince you why the future of our planet will develop in optimistic way. 
One the one hand, there is no denying that people underestimate the power of innovation which has changed our world. We often fail to see the actual movement of progress, technological and otherwise. Over the couple of decades people try to solve the Millennium Development Goals like eradicating extreme poverty, reducing child mortality, ensuring environmental sustainability, combating diseases, inequality, etc. Firstly, let`s argue against one of the world`s problem which is, for instance, the problem of poverty. Mr. Matt Ridley, science writer and author of the award-winning The Rational Optimist, cites statistics which shows that people think global poverty during the last twenty years has doubled while in fact it has halved. And his optimism is not based on personality or character but on the data.
 Secondly, let’s turn to another achievement of humanity – improvements, for example, in environment. Mr. Matt Ridley does not support the idea that the innovation in technology will lead us running out of fuel or any other energy source. People start to develop alternative energy sources to fossil fuel. Such alternative energy sources include solar energy, wind energy, biomass electricity, hydroelectric energy and ocean energy, and geothermal energy, which are renewables, and do not harm the environment.
And finally, the living standards for people are becoming better and better from century to century. Mr. Johan Norberg, documentary filmmaker and author of Progress: The Reasons to Look Forward to the Future, gives an example of his own thoughts, that if the standards were incredibly low (like those which were in the past), now he would be nowhere, he would die. He start to studying the history of Sweden, of other parts of the world, traveling around, and the history convenience him the progress that goes on the other places will save the planet from crashing. So, these two men claim that secretly, quietly, without of watching the world becomes getting better in extraordinary ways.
