There are some opinions that English was large and contained multitudes. Does it really English which we are listening now from native speakers or language and exactly words and constructions we are learning since childhood? Or it is becoming inferior? Let’s take a look closely.
As John Humphrys, author of Losts for Words, remarked level of language is not all about word’s we use or constructions which make our speech magnificent. It is also about our culture, intelligent manners and psychology sometimes. John Humphrys gave a couple examples about slang and useless words in our speech. And it is really makes sense and in my personal opinion makes language which we speak more inferior. Because everybody agrees with an idea that first of all language is about how society is communicating. That’s why we should respect ourselves and our opponents, but also we do not can forget that language is a part of our history. Moreover speaking about English it is a way to communicate with different countries. 
Oliver Kamm, commentator at the Times, emphasized some points about grammar and matters of all rules we all learned from school. He thinks that some rules were actually beaten by new generation. And the question is not what we supposed to do with our educational system, it is more about how we can imply, improve and manage it. Is it so easy to just use correct language? For instance, by 'correct English', people usually mean Standard English. Most languages have a standard form; it's the form of the language used in government, education, and other formal contexts. But Standard English is actually just one dialect of English and we should keep it in mind. And there are a lot of different of grammar and pronunciation from area to area, even from profession to profession. And it will seems extraordinary for each other. But I really believe that we all need to use all common rules because of respect the language. We always need to be understood correctly. There is no place for laziness. 
Language is always changing, evolving, and adapting to the needs of its users. This isn't a bad thing; if English hadn't changed we wouldn't have words to refer to computers, Internet of things, or cable TV. As long as the needs of language users continue to change, so will the language. Saimon Heffer, journalist on the Daily Mail, mentioned that no doubt language has evolved, grammar took a step forward, language became more polyglot’s. And sounds of languages change a lot of times. And speaking about English language there is no clue why do native speakers fetishize their abuse of using English in the way they do it. English is a most important channel throw all the world and we all should remember it and use it the way we will be understood correctly. And examples from daily HR’s work proved it. Fortunately, there is a sort of people; I can name it as a new progressive generation which really interesting in using this comprehensive instrument correctly to be more polite, intelligent and broad-minded persons. And thanks for our languages are not going to become inferior what they were like before. I truly believe it will improve from these people. I am sure we just need to look around and take lessons of motivation and education culture from these sort of people. We don’t need just read some comprehensive for our understanding books, let’s just see how smoothly, beautiful and correct people can communicate. There are these people in our office, university or it just might be a shopper from a shopping center across the street. 
I guess everybody agree that we might feel influence on the language from slang. For many years, language manuals had provided double-column lists of correct and incorrect words. It was something like parallel columns of upper-class speech versus the speech of middle-class people trying to attain, or pretend to, upper-class status. But let’s take a look to a professional slang, words which help us stay current and give us great opportunities to learn and explore the word. There are plenty of words which could easily be misused if you don’t keep up with contemporary slang.  Slang should not detract from a proper understanding of the language as it is used in its current form. New expressions from all new technologies, spheres, products, experience’s will have to earn the popularity of a wide part of the public if they are to become part of the mainstream lexicon. Slang is not all about bad influence. 
Was the language more elegant in any romantic period and books such as Shakespeare, for instance? My answer is no. The language is always changing doesn't mean it's getting worse; it's just becoming different.
My point is our languages are not becoming inferior. I am absolutely sure that they improve every days and the most important thing I want emphasize it is all about ability to use all beautify from language. And this factor really depends on our education, personal lifestyle and intelligent level. Languages are become more powerful, more beautiful every day. Let’s just take it and do not destroy it by our behavior and character. 
