The Motion: “There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays.”
After I’ve watched the video, I still tend to doubt, whether I am for the motion or against it. Both panels made compelling arguments and for me it is more a source of new problems which can be discussed. But in order to make some conclusions of what I understood, I would like to point out some of the speakers’ arguments that had set me thinking.
First of all, I enjoyed that David Runciman drew the line between what makes us be more optimistic (the technological progress and its impact on the society and economy), and what makes us more pessimistic (politics). Although it wasn’t his first statement, this distinction is needed to look at the history and understand that technology per se is neutral to moral or ethical reasoning. This is a tool that can bring society to the enlightenment and prosperity on the one hand, and on the other – to decay and narrow-mindedness. And mentioning his next statement about wild optimism of the Silicon Valley I share his vision, that such blindness of our prosperous society combined with the unprecedentedly high level of uncertainty about the future may result tragic consequences. 
May politicians change this situation? Can they find compromise with the changes in society which are caused by technology? That’s what I personally worry about. But what certainly shouldn’t be done, is the isolation due to our fear of that uncertainty. As Jonathan Norberg mentioned, such fear of future uncertainty makes people to build walls and isolate ourselves from others – and such tendency may diminish the progress that modern society achieved.
But what worries me more, is the David’s argument about the impact of tragic events on our society: he asserts that the achievements of 50 years of peace are the consequences of the tragic events that took place in the 1st half of the XX century. This argument also refers to the problem of pessimism about recent drastic changes in politics of US and UK. But in this question I am on the side of the optimist’s panel: the history had seen much worse persons in charge of the country and it is not the politics is not the reason to be pessimistic about our future taking into account developed administrating models and less patronizing policy, than even 50 years ago. And taking into account the example of the 20th century politics we, vice-versa, should be aware of the mistakes made, and be ready not make them again.
Other question, that has arisen after listening to some of the questions and reading the material, is whether all people must be optimistic, if there are some rational arguments to be an optimist. It is true, that technology is changing the world in good way and overall level of prosperity is rising. But there is still a high level of inequality in many developed countries, the population of such countries is aging, there is a growing number of people with mental problems and in many countries people not only can’t enjoy the results of the technological progress, they are still live in poverty. The question is, whether “a wild optimism of the Silicon Valley” with its technology-solving approach will change the situation in the world or we must reconsider our values, moral and ethical principles. And in this question I tend to be on a pessimists side.
The last point I want to make is about Jonathan’s argument about human nature of pessimism. It is brilliant, because it is so obvious, that the human must be aware of some threat in order to survive in this world, and how that genetic feature influences our behavior and society even today. We rely less on instincts, more on reason, knowledge and technology, but the instincts are still with us and they dictate us to look for a new problem to solve, after we sorted out the previous one. 
So, considering all pros and contras, I tend to think about the motion “a bit pessimistic”, which means that I am against it, but still worry about the future, because of it uncertainty and the problems our society is facing nowadays. 
