Motion: All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were before.
The question of whether we should “democratize” the use language or be more conservative is quite controversial, because it is hard to draw the line between proper and improper use. As John Humphrys. said, language is dynamic system, it always evolves. 
Standards of education or the language: which one is going to the dogs?
But despite all the changes that affect language, there must be some standards, some rules that enables us to communicate clearly and be precise in expressing our thoughts.
And in that case, the overall democratization and lowering the standards of grammar, punctuation, or spelling that is taught in schools deprive pupils and students of such precision and make them incapable of understanding each other.
Other problem I’m concerned about is the political rhetoric and the way they use language to manipulate the crowd. And even though it’s hard to imagine that someday Orwell’s idea of EngSoc will become a reality, this is not how language should be used.
Hence, I think we must respect our language, as Simon Heffner mentioned, instead of democratizing the use of it and downgrading the level of proper language education.
Rules: are they an objective truth?
But it would be an enormous fault to think that the way business and politics with their clichés and bureaucratic forms of all kinds will lead the language to decay. And when we are speaking about languages generally, I think today, with much more knowledge about different languages and much intensive communication between people of different cultures, our own languages enriches with new words, expressions, meanings.
And as Oliver Kamm stated, the rules in language are arbitrary. These rules are not objective truth that can be perceived. As laws and regulation, morality and religion, language is a social construct. It doesn’t exist within a group of persons. And only those who are currently using specific language are making the rules. That said, we also cannot claim that the language was greater some time ago than it is today. When something is arbitrary than we cannot measure it objectively, because we must come to an agreement on how to measure, and these rules will also be arbitrary! It’s foolish trying to find the truth where none is present. 
Hence, I there may be standards that can be changed in time. And these standards must be preserved, and the argument of John Humphrys makes sense, but it doesn’t mean that language is going to dogs, it changes with society and it will be inferior only when the usage of that language will shrink eventually. And that’s not the case, speaking of English.
So, in question whether rules must are objective truth or not, I am voting for descriptivism, because there may be standards but one size doesn’t fit all, and diversity in use of the language doesn’t infer it but enriches.
Conclusion
As a lawyer, I adore English and the way it is used in the court judgments. I also like working with rules, thinking about better system of them, making them more clear and precise and this is why I sympathize the pro-side of the debates. Therefore I agree upon their statements about educational system and why we need rules in language to communicate properly. But as a human being I oppose their arguments, because English is one of the most prosperous languages if we look at the number of speakers, and it enriches through new cultures and the way they use it. And my question, if I could visit that debate would be not about the English language, but about the languages that are really going to the dogs due to lack of native-speakers. And what we can do to preserve them.

 
