The motion for discussion which is very intriguing and have many angles to speak for or against motion  is entitled “There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays”. One would be enticed to speak or advocate against the motion based on what David Runciman said in course of his debate, he said the fact that things are going well for now and it has gone well in the past few years do not mean will be the same in the coming times. I support him thousand times but the issue is, his bases are mere mental pessimistic and feeling of insecurity because it does not base on any scientific background or research.
Again, hammering on the speech of Cater Phipps focusing and elaborating on current problems the world is facing and enduring like climate change, economic difficulties across the globe, dangerous of mix technology and terrorism and lastly oblivious attitudes of various governments towards the welfare of the civilians of their respective countries. Once a rational human being tries to think of these things in addition to how these reasons are costing the world not to be a conducive environment, anxiety and insecurity turns in resulting to fear for the future. Now in Nigeria, Syria and other countries of terrorism menaces, the citizens living in that part of the globe have a very slim believe to be in the world of optimism in the coming days or years.
Furthermore, Matt Ridley made also a nice comment concerning the world of pessimism, he mentioned even though some phenomenon occurring on earth from ancient times and current era like desert collapsing and increasing in sizes, the ocean decreasing and reducing in volume and lastly disease like low sperm count as a result of technology in our food we eat are also grounds and real prove to fear the coming century for human life.
I stand and big to differ from the motion or to speak against the motion irrespective of the above challenges this planet has suffered from and is still enduring because  to me the ability of humankind to solve a problem make a place and an  environment  to be a paradise and  lovely to live in. I hereby support my stance with the below reasons as the above mentioned reasons are just a great rumor or a fallacy.
Firstly, increase in good health care, according to Johan Noberg, malaria in the world to be more specific sub- Sahara African in  the current statistics have shown a reduction of about fifty five percentage when compared to the previous cases recorded. HIV/ AIDS , which was one of the deadly diseases without cure in the past century is now with drugs serving as both cure and also immunization. Many other dangerous health challenges are now eradicated or have measures to control them so a person suffering can live for a long time although the disease persists. Most countries in the world have a health plan, insurance and policies to support and subsidize the cost for its citizens so in turns helps both the poor and the rich citizens to access medical care. Health talks on radio, television and in newspapers are  also very essential as they disseminate information and  education on how people are to be very vigilant when suffering from a certain ailment. Good health care one observes in our current period of humankind has resulted in the rise of life expectancy. Now the average mortality age in every country has increase due to good medical options/care and facilities available for usage.
Secondly, different types of democratic governance over dictatorship and other cruel style of leadership is also in the reduction in our current world and it is believe to be halted as civilization is on the rise.  According to Johan Noberg who made another statement concerning this point emphasizing that  People in various countries are experiencing freedom and liberty to do whatsoever they wise to as compare to the past and pervious times. Recently one can walk bare chested to join any religious denomination s/he wish to be affiliated, marry whoever, move and travel everywhere and lastly have good access to education and health cares.  Not to mention there is freedom to live, eat and buy from anywhere appropriately designated for such human needs. 
Thirdly, Matt Riddey made an interesting point to support optimism and he spoke on technological innovations. Upgrading and building upon previous technology in the scope and field of agriculture, water , health , communication, transport and fashion is tuning the world now and future with much positive hopes to live in. To travel from one continent to another as at now is made in a matter of hours but not in months as in ancient times. Storage and processing plants are available for food processing making access to food very efficient and less costly. Modern means of water treatment through technology cannot be forgetting too.
Lastly to speak against the motion and to support that the world have a positive and brighter future  is due to the activities of international organizations and non- governmental agency which have the core mandate to help the world to be peaceful. Organizations like UN, AU, EU and many more have intervention plans to help in case  of natural disaster  and wars. In the past years these institutions have been fortified and have material support from almost all its member states in terms of finances and human expert force. Trust and confidence has been entrusted in them to undertake its responsibilities. They have a hallmark on how effective during the practice of its veto powers to maintain a peaceful world, support venerable people and many more responsibilities goes to tell that the world in the coming future better.
To conclude, paying attention to increase in good health care, different types of democratic governance over dictatorship and other cruel style of leadership, the activities of international organizations and non- governmental agency and lastly technological innovations of which  we are experiencing now foretell one that the world is going to be a perfect place to live in an optimistic perceptive in the future than being pessimistic as human institution grow with more plans and innovative way leading better dynamism in our way of life.
