There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays.

After the cataclysmic event in 2016 it might seem naïve to express optimism that 2017 will be any different. In this debate, chaired by political editor laura Kuenssberg, two optimists share their reason to look on the bright side and one pessimists does his best to  bring us back down to earth.
Speaker Matt Ridley said, that it’s hardly surprising that people are inclined to think the world is in dire straits. The way he sees it, the media is in no small part to blame. For example, if an airplane doesn’t crash, we don’t report it.  He says, that we only tell the bad news. 
There is an argument to made that the bad things in the world happen suddenly, while the good thing happen gradually and that is why we see disasters and terror attacks being covered more frequently in the news. Compare to say global poverty and child mortality reaching all time lows.
Author and documentary filmmaker Johan Norberg also believes the evolution of the news cycle has influenced how we see the world. We are not just exposed to local or national news any more. Also he says, that we can see the terrible things being report on all around the world 24 hours a day.
Speaker Matt Ridley posits the problem is that a negative skewing news cycle inevitably warps our perspective. And said, that we tend to drown ourselves in pessimism. He makes the assertion that while obesity is a very serious problem, it is a arguably a better problem than starvation.
In fact, things have never been better.
The last hundered years the global average life expectancy has increased. The world economy has continued to grow. The latter half of the 20 century was a steep decline in war and torture on a global scale.
I agree about progress some places in the last 20 to 30 years has been mind-blowing. 
All three panelists, pessimist included, agree that in the life lottery, this is the best time to be alive. Johan Norberg says, you would have to go to the very poverty countries in sub-Saharan Africa to see the conditions that the very richest Europeans lived in just 200 years ago.
In countries like China, where it's more common for three generations to sit around the same table, dinner conversation will span a century, with stories ranging from living through famine to working in a service economy, and so notions of the past are less filtered, and views of the future tend to be brighter.
Generally speaking, people tend to point to the evolution, when they grew up. They thinking back to a time before they had jobs, and children, a time when the future was full of excitement rather than something to worry about. And now we have more older people in our population than ever before, so an explosion of nostalgia for the good old days is to be expected.
Our current situation seems especially dire only by its immediacy, and that the problems of the past seem insignificant to us, simply because they've already been solved.
However, just because things have been getting better, doesn't necessarily mean we can extrapolate that into our future doing so wouldn't work in a casino, and the same goes for life. The future has always been impossible to predict, apart from in general trajectories
And it is conceivable that our current political climate will result in a temporary dip in humanity's ascent. But that alone isn't reason to be pessimistic. 
Matt Ridley points out that 2009 was the only year after the Second World War that the world economy shrank, dropping by 0.9%, but it grew by 5 per cent the next year. “There are bubbles, and there are crashes” he says, and yet in the end there's always something marching us forward.
The future is unknowable, it might be great, it might be awful, it might be unrecognizable. Human history has not been an upward slope, but rather millennia of bumping along the bottom, followed by a relatively sudden explosion of progress over the last few centuries.
Chances of another world war are very remote, he believes the consequences would be graver now than ever before. Our society may be fragile in ways we don't even know. I would not be particularly optimistic about the future of a society full of optimists. The evidence does suggest, though, that innovation springs from optimism, and that worrying about a problem doesn't solve it. Being an optimist isn't about complacency and blind faith, then but rather about believing that things can change, and then actually doing something about it.
