All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were like before.

	I prefer to be for the motion all languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were like before. I can’t to be confident that all the language in the world  are becoming infer because there are so much languages and only professionals such as linguists know all the languages. Maybe in Africa there are languages which don’t changed even after many centuries and inhabitants use the same language that was two or three hundred years ago.
	But let’s try to consider the contemporary existing of such popular and well-known languages as Russian, English, French, Chinese etcetera. These languages changes rapidly in the global world we have nowadays. They are influenced by the Internet, TV, migrants and even travelers. Sometimes these changes are good, sometimes not. It’s not accidentally that in the debates “Between You and I language is Going to the Dog” the guest asked the question about twitter. 
	Of course as third speaker Simon Heffer from the video was proved to us said the language doesn’t need to be frozen. Any language is alive. For example in Russian in the different centuries were different great poets. In 18th century it was Dergavin, in 19th it was Pushkin, in 20th Mayakovski. From century to century Russian languages become easier and easier and contemporary generation’s people sometimes can’t understand what our ancestors wanted to ask in 18th century. But it’s doesn’t means Russian languages become worse or less beautiful. 
	Let’s return to the video with the “Between you and I…” debates. To tell the truth I agree with the both sides, with the for the motion group and with the against the motion one. All the speakers provided very convincing arguments. Maybe it depends on their professions because they work with a “word” and know this problem from inside.
	I liked the standpoint of the Oliver Kamm which concluded that there are different between the just speaking fluently and the literature language and our grammar often depends on the context. Of course it’s true, because when I speak with my fellow student for example I just want to bring my minds and don’t need to prepare the great speech.
	Maybe all arguments I provided looks like against the motion reasons. But if we have this conversation and this topic in the intelligence2 it means this question is relevant and people think the problem with the low level of grammar in the contemporary language is. I’m sure that the literacy depend on the language conditions. 
	It’s not the new mind if I say that the language defines the thinking. And when we speak or write illiteracy we have negative influence for our mind. But nowadays the illiteracy texts are everywhere. From my own experience when you look forward the employee it’s really lucky to find person who can write grammatically in Russia. And as is easy to see the person who can’t speak grammatically can’t write grammatically too. I see the evidence regress in Russian literacy. I supposed the same situation in English language that’s why we can see the video “…Language is Going to the Dog”.
	In conclusion I want to say languages nowadays becoming inferior to what they were like before and illiteracy spread very fast but we have the antidote – to read more and more books of different authors from the antic to the contemporary. 
	
	
	
	   
