There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays.

“Optimism is a short of information”- once has said well-known Russian actress Faina Ranevskaya. And her pearl of wisdom is still acute. Some people do believe in future as a perfect place to live, others believe that it is a collapsed star and something that is hidden inside is not optimistic at all. 
Optimists hold exactly the opposite view. They are assured that the innovation way will bring only great things – and by innovation they mean not only the technical breakthrough, but also the change in all spheres of life, especially the social one.  Innovation doesn’t go down, it is not running out of the society. Johan Norberg adds – he used to be a pessimist, but then he started studying history. And then he realized that we wouldn’t have survived if he had lived some hundreds years ago – the living standards had been other. That is the progress. That is a slow steady progress and it doesn’t shock anyone like a plane crash. By the way, about the plane crash.  Matt Ridley has added – no one reports that the airplane doesn’t crash. There is a tendency to hear only about things that go wrong in the world, we tend to drown ourselves into a pessimism. 
He also claims that optimism is based on a data and on history. There are improvements on health (AIDS is going better) and longevity. Lets look in the history – some decades years ago such countries as China or Vietnam were not so perfect. Poverty, lack of communications, high morbidity rates,  totalism. Look at these countries now – their future look ideal, they are practically in everyone’s must-visit places. That is the progress, that we do not notice and about which we are so pessimistic. About tourists – we  blithely take for granted the opportunities to travel wherever we want. 
Johan Norberg applies that pessimism is a child of mass-media. We all are completely obsessed with everything that goes wrong. And mass media knows what we want to read – they turn the world on fire. Access to global media has let journalists find more horrible things they can report about. Due to these pessimistic news humanity has a tendency to be pessimistic. And this is the easiest way to escape the problem. But in the world, Matt Ridley claims, everything is getting only better. Global poverty? For the last decades it has halved, not doubled as overwhelming majority of pessimistic people had supposed. 
And the last point – people are not so pessimistic about their own life. The closer they get to home, more optimistic they become they seem to have a quota to pessimism, has mentioned Matt Ridley. Innovation tends to lead more optimism. 
On the other hand, terror attacks, horror headlines from Syria, a tide of hatred and resentment poisoning our future – we cannot live happy when they are terror attacks once a month and the whole world is threatened bi the IS and elections in the USA. May be pessimism is the best way to face the upcoming future? The challenges are posed by global warming, economic crises (that start one by one like waves), the ongoing poverty, refugees, liberalism and so on.. people loose faith in their future.
As David Runciman has claimed, this is not a great story of progress, but also about regress. We have forgotten about Hitler, Mao, World War I and II, Syria and other political changes. Is it a progress? Years by years people kill each other and hasn’t drawn any conclusion. They has just invented an atom bomb and improved the weapons. That is it. 
The stories about great progress are unique periods of history – we do not know how they would end. May be that progress will lead to regress. Like in economics. 
The future is really unknowable, unpredictable and scaring.  
If some countries the folks and government have made a great stride forward. But there is no reason to be optimistic. Because there are still a lot of countries that struggle 
Politics survives not the best times. For example, the election of Donald Trump as a president of the USA. A lot of experts are too pessimistic about that. And no one knows – is it a progress or a regress?. American has shown a topline pessimism that they can survive on Trump 
We know what causes innovation and what causes a disaster – trump could cause a disaster 



To my point of view, optimistic society will stagnate. The world needs pessimists that would produce the progress by noticing what is wrong. What would the world look like if all were optimists, we wouldn’t have solved so many problems. And I think, that it is better to think about something bad and be surprised by the real progress in the future, than to be disappointed by the 
Letdown about the future. Honestly saying, I am a little bit scared about the future politics – the UN doesn’t influence on countries, the leaders are more tough and more unpredictable than some decades ago (I don’t mean Russia, in this case we will be talking about a lot of decades). But I truly believe that everything will be good. I hope it will. 
All in all, optimists and pessimists will always exist. On one hand, people are not so pessimistic about their own life. The closer they get to home, more optimistic they become they seem to have a quota to pessimism, has mentioned Matt Ridley. Innovation tends to lead more optimism. On the other, climate changes, political wars and other challenges of modernity do not force hand. And there is more case for pessimism than for optimism about the future in the world. It is better to get prepared ourselves to everything, than to nothing. The humanity will make a leap in the dark. What would be there? Optimists will say, everything, pessimists – nothing. But no one knows for sure. We’ll see, we’ll see. Or not…?
