All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were like before.

Technical progress and changes in society are influence to language. It is difficult to underestimate the importance of language for communication between people. However, we should pay more attention to the uneven development language in our time. Some people thing that changes are deal with better site, while others have another opinion. 
I agree with the point of view that language is losing its quality. The first thing that needs to be said is that the concept of inferior is different for everyone. Simplification of language for example can be viewed as a plus and a minus. One cannot deny that the correct use of language is the exception rather than rule now. One argument is support of that view is the media, books and politicians have forgotten how to use well-constructed sentences. They use only fragments of phrases.  We live in a world in which migration and political instability mixes the culture and language of countries that affect its quality. Nevertheless, one should accept that often there are some examples of people who are use in internet the acronym and slang. In my opinion, it shows the reduction in the importance of language and leaning levels of children in school. Experts emphasize that people release a lot of books with slang. On the one hand it creates the opportunity to broaden the circle of friends and on the other spoils speech of this person. In addition in makes his speech illiterate and illogical. 
One should, nevertheless, consider the problem from another angle. On the other hand many people believe that rules need only the little children to create a speech base. Thus, people think that intuitive they can perfectly communicate and understand each other. And this is the main goal of the language. What is more if the language has not changes, progress would not be developed, people would think the same. It is often said that it is impossible to talk about the deterioration, because worlds are taken from the past, and therefore remains unchanged. Modern books correspond with the books of previous years, so the language in a single. Another good thing about it is that simplification of the language helps to save time in correspondence. 
From there arguments one should conclude that the change in language opens new boundaries, but degrades the culture of the society. Becomes less quality movies and books, more people are using slang and borrowed words. In conclusion I want to say that modern deterioration of language will lead us to illiterate staff and lack of understanding the ideas and views of others. 
