The motion: There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays.
The motion implies the existence of definite number of causes for good or bad emotions about the future. As to me, I agree with neither side because I believe in the existence of the diversity of opinions about the future. I think, every person has his own causes for pessimism and optimism. The future is very subjective, and every man has its own fate.  
My position is quite similar with Matt Ridley, who says that one’s opinion about the world itself and about the future is mostly guided by news. And the news in turn are full of exciting stories, interesting and thrilling. What could be more thrilling than a thriller?! A lot of columnists (even news agencies!) are focused on pessimistic topics: wars, murders, poverty and other disaster. 
I also agree the position of Johan Norberg, who state that all we need to understand the world is numbers. The numbers, statistics, regressions and so on tell us objective view on the things happening now, trends and forecasts. We are all pessimistic by nature a little bit. But I suppose most of pessimistic emotions is because of risks we think it’s kind a threat for our survival – and media is the catalyst for bad emotions. As Johan said “The world is on fire!”, this is what the reader wants to read. Anyway, there is very useful feature of pessimism – when we see problems and feel upset, we start to think about the solutions and try to strive for better live. So pessimism is quite a driver of a progress.
There are a lot of people who think that future will never be so good as their past was. I think, and my opinion is supported by recent scientific studies, that most of them are just nostalgic for young years. There is no doubt, that youth is better than old age. In youth, we are all full of energy, emotions and opportunities. One of the best feelings in the feeling when your desires meet opportunities. Otherwise the depression and pessimism(!) come into play. So, the old age by itself cause pessimism. Moreover, if a person sees only aging and obsolescence in his future, he will be depressed and more pessimistic than a young aged one. 
As to David Runciman’s opinion, I do not see any point in his arguments. He tried to point that even though we know what in our world causes progress (innovation) and what causes disaster (e.g. Donald Trump), people do not show rational behavior, they vote for Trump. Again this brings us to my first idea about the pluralist of opinions. Some people, casually, sees pessimism in Trump, others are positive about him. Therefore, there is no decent concept of what causes pessimism and what causes optimism. This is extremely subjective idea that fully depend on individual person’s mindset. So, I suppose we should be more independent concerning what things are optimistic, and what are pessimistic. On the other hand, if you ask me, I would say I’m a 100% optimist!
