The motion for the examination essay: There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays.
It is a well-known fact that nowadays more and more terrible and frightening news is published and broadcasted all over the world. Unfortunately, people hear about terrorism and armed attacks too often. Thus, they tend to feel extremely pessimistic about their future. Nevertheless, comparing to the past it is obvious that today people’s lives are much better and safer than they ever used to be. Let’s try to discuss this motion closely and find out if people should be optimists or pessimists in current situation.
Taking everything into consideration I tend to think that despite all the difficulties that people face, it is essential not to lose positive outlook on the situation if a person wants to change it.
First of all, nowadays people live in an extremely well-developed world. There are so many rapid changes that occur every day in different spheres like education, medical treatment and life expectancy or for instance today people have almost no boundaries to travel. One of the speakers and an article remind us about the history to notice that the progress has been so remarkable so that there is no reason to be pessimistic about the future because people’s lives are becoming better every year all over the world and in some countries it has never been so good if we compare it to the past life standards.
Unfortunately, there is a tendency nowadays to broadcast only bad news to the world for example concerning aircraft crashes, terror attacks or just about endangered species disappearance and as one of the speakers mentioned that may drown people into pessimism in spite of the fact that many cheerful things happen in the world and they just do not know about them and do not have an opportunity to feel optimistic about current situation.
In defense of opposite side, I would say that mainstream political issues that happen today make people forget about all good things that they have nowadays and just be frightened and feel gloomy about their future. 
Moreover, I would like to mention the idea of one of the speakers that really catches my attention. He said that if there is a question when you would like to be born the only correct answer in now because the present is obviously better that the past, but if the question is to live now or in 50 years’ time it is much more difficult to answer due to the fact that we do not know where our modern fragile world will be in that time. This satiation of unknowing may make people pessimistic, because the world may be great or awful in 50 years but still they do not know it and they do not even know the data of historical great changes.
