The motion I’d like to refute via this essay - "There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays." To be or not to be optimistic is eventually the matter of choice, not the matter of feelings. Even if you feel pessimistic about the future I’m going to persuade you that there are no real causes for that and that this point of view is demonstrably wrong. If you look closer at the arguments of both sides you will notice that the positive forecast is sensible whereas any notable one against
it is sensuous. Briefly speaking my motto can be expressed by the words of the science-writer and author of the award-winning "The Rational Optimist" Matt Ridley: "My optimism isn’t based on the personality or character, it’s based on the data". So let’s turn to the facts. What do we have in our modern life? The data tell us the world is getting better in all sorts of ways. Living standards are incredibly high, global poverty is getting lower, the life expectancy has never been so high, developing technologies are continuously making life more pleasurable and job simpler, medicine has reached an unprecedented level, child mortality is getting lower and so forth. The careful reader may object - "You’re talking about present with respect to the past, why should it somehow correlate with the relation between the future and the present?" which is one of the point of the professor of politics at Cambridge University David Runciman who represents pessimistic views. Here is
my answer. There is nothing but improvement behind us and its engine as Matt Ridley aptly remarked is innovation in the technologies, the way we are behave and there is no reason to think that this engine is either slowing down or running out of fuel.
So why pessimism is so widespread? There is number of cognitive biases for that which appeals to our emotions, our nature and doesn’t offer any real causes for that. The first one - the nostalgia. Most of us really love their youth, because it seems exciting, safe and simple, but it’s not the sign of bad future’s coming
it’s the consequence of our nature and has nothing to do with the real situation. The second one - the fear of uncertainty. The present seems better because it is what we all are used to unlike the future which is vague and scaring. The third one - people don’t find anything notable in calm and satisfying life. Quite the
reverse in fact - people tend to take notice of bad and horrifying staff. Moreover in most cases good things happen gradually while bad one - suddenly and notably. Thus pessimism is a part of our nature, moreover it can be really helpful because it helps us to note
problems, to care about them and consequently to solve them, so the existence of pessimism is justified by human nature and evolution but it has nothing to do with any actual causes connected with the future. I hope I’ve succeeded in showing you that despite of your possible pessimism all facts indicate that the future
of mankind will be great and beautiful and all the idle worries about it are completely groundless.
