There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays

Today the time of the Great Unknown: the level of uncertainty in the minds of the humanity is extreme, none is able to predict what happens next. Unfortunately, there is a layer of people who tend to think that the modern success in the most of activities can lead to the disaster. But there are also ones who think that it is not that bad, comparing it what happened in the past.
The history of humanity as we know it is really bloody and destructive and in all the times the man wanted more and more from his neighbor and from the nature. The love to have more than you possess mixed with todays political situation all over the world frightens all of us, because some countries already have the weapons that are able to destroy all the living on our planet. David Runciman supports that today risk of the end of the world is tightly connected with politics, but his opponent has the other opinion motivated by the fact that politically, everything that could go wrong, did go wrong, in the end, in spite of all the negative points of the 20th century, we did not see as much progress as we had in these years, we increased life expectancy from 30 to 70 years, extreme poverty declined from around 80 percent to nearly 10 percent.
Moreover, it’s hard to challenge that “we are pessimistic by nature, we tend to whine all the times”, – as Johan Norberg says. The good example of it is the fact that everyday we wake up and read news, but there are a really small number of articles that have positive content. Maybe because negative content attracts more people, maybe because our nature is that like Matt Ridley thinks: “people take the good for granted and worry about other things».
The next point is that pessimism is the product of our age. Johan Norberg has the opinion that in the times when we are kids, the world is really exciting, but when we grow up and have kids, we start worrying about the things that can go wrong and that makes us think that in the past times the things were better that makes us pessimistic about the future.
As the conclusion it worth saying that life is wonderful and the obstacles and problems were on humans’ way all the time, but we are still here struggling, living and loving despite it all. The life without any expectation of negative events has no meaning, because a human evolved through getting over the challenges of time. So, it is a good idea to be optimistic about future and consider negative events like good lessons that should be remembered and never forgot.
