There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays.

The question of what to expect from the future is a thing that bothers every generation. Since nineteenth century after the industrial revolutions people have believed in best future. The twentieth century was a hard period for optimism but without believing in best the world would have never overcome the consequences of the World War II. 
 It seems that pessimism is a product of modern times because of globalization and information spreading.  When one is able to see the life of people in other countries, to read articles from the best scientists and to listen to leaders of different social groups it is very hard to keep optimism. But the ability to receive information brings a big problem of verifying information. It is a known feature of any mass-media that bad news are sold much better than good ones. There are many examples of provoking pessimism based on news. One of the things is technology vs. terrorism, the news that some terrorists use modern messengers and social networks for coordinating their actions provoke a lot of people to speak about forbidding such technologies or increasing surveillance. Quite the same thing can be told about other problems that make people be pessimistic.
If we talk about poverty and mortality in African or Asian countries, the people who are pessimistic about future are usually citizens of developed countries and people from developing countries are much more optimistic. And they are like Europeans were two hundreds ago, when started their development. Even during the twentieth century a lot of changes happened in Europe regarding child mortality and life expectancy, and there are no reasons not to think that the same changes will happen in developed countries.
Reading the headlines from Middle East may cause pessimism, but people should remember that even the “worst” twentieth century was full of progress and optimism. The humans can overcome anything with belief in best future.
There are a lot of pessimistic ideas about modern politics with Trump’s being a president or Brexit, but again remembering the twentieth century with terrible leaders of governments who were able to start a nuclear war,  today’s situation in the world is much safer.
As the conclusion I would like to point out that to have a better future we should be optimistic, because pessimism is a product of fear and it is misguided. Without belief and confidence in best people will be unable to develop the world, the optimism gives inspiration and we need it to build our future.
