All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were like before

The world today and in any times was a place of mass changings that are happening every single second. Being altered is not always being developed in a good way, but still some changes bring new stream that affect the life of millions. It is also applied to the world of linguistics, where the inner wars are happening everyday between prescriptivists, those who stick to the idea of linguistic conservatism and descriptivists that are on the other side, practicing new streams of changes.
As for the first point of view, there is no doubt that language is the thing that comprises all the attributes that identify the nation it created and alters together with it, that means that language is a nation in the mirror. So, why should we do bad to the face of our nation by bringing poor word or grammar forms thus making our face look dull and uninteresting as the descriptivists say?
Moreover, Simon Heffer, journalist on the Daily Mail stick to the opinion that abuse of language hurts not only society itself, but every single person by making their life more sophisticated, e.g. the use of poor English might have a negative impact on your career: a well-paid vacancy cannot be filled by a person who is able to speak on the same level as those respectful well-paid people.
The education and mass media, two main parts of todays young men also put negative effect on the language: pupils are limited with 140-word tweets that do not let them express their thoughts in a proper way. As John Humphrys, a Welsh radio presenter says, young men are now used to live in narrow-minded, dirty world, where young men are rounded by euphemisms, that are presented as a level of high society language. It is also necessary to add, that the simplification of language also lead to the problem of lack of good teaching. It is easy to understand that the rule of negative progression would probably annihilate the beauty of todays languages.
On the other hand, the life is made up of everyday changes, that are cannot be ignored. The problem is the filtration of good and bad, which is a complex challenge both for the linguists and common people. But the society tend to go by the way of the least resistance and tries to take into account everything that makes its life easier. But just several centuries ago classical music was something that should not be played or listened in a high society. Mary Beard says the same about apostrophes and contractions, today it simplifies our life, makes our speech more sounding and even saves the forests by a better paper use.
Moreover, Mary states that the rules are made to break them, and when a rule is broken, in grammar its called an exception. She also states that society should not turn into a snob, when the changes come into a place, it is better to think over it, and to approve only those changes that would make a life easier and would put any negative effect on the language.
In conclusion, it is necessary to restate that language is like Pushkin “our everything” and it should always be the guiding star of a nation, the present that a handed over for one generation to another, but on on one hand, this present should be constantly renewed in order not to make it decayed and useless, but on the other hand it is a good idea to use a cliché: don’t throw the baby out with bathwater.
