All languages nowadays are becoming inferior what they were like before?
	The motion that stands above has significant meaning in our fast changing world. As we can notice, a way people communicate each other dramatically affected by technological progress and cultural shifts caused by it. Blurring of language rules is agenda of today’s day. But how much is really negative trend? Let’s analyze key pros and cons to answer that question soundly.
Language always was and would a tool to express people feelings and showcase what thoughts they have. Problem is how to be interpreted properly. People are gifted with grammatical rules, standards and ethics of speaking to solve that problem. We have an education to adopt that ones. It’s supposed, educated people can speak in right way. In fact, there is no straight cohesion between education and ability to speak right. As the first speaker demonstrated, even sophisticated students from prestigious university use what we call “wrong language”, or slang. Moreover, exactly young educated part of society is main driver of that blurring. Language became more ambiguous, former meaning of some words are changing and using in different ways. For instance, a word problem is substitutes with issues, difficulties with challenges and so on. Grammar rules can’t appropriate transformations immediately. That’s why we have disproportions and shifts that make older generation concern about what is going on with their native language. I think there’s no reasons for panic. Language is just a tool to communicate and it doesn’t matter if you don’t follow rules when people understand what you are talking about. If grammar rules limit you to express a whole set of your emotions it’s logical you can go out of that barriers. Other thing, when you are politician and must sound precisely and give clear points. The same situation is with mass media statements. It’s dangerous way to go down losing meanings of some terms. In a particular, when you want find a job you must use proper language rules to prove you are educated and has competences. In other words, language is also a tool of competition and demonstrating your social status. 
Another part of that issue is writing according to accepted rules. Social networks like Facebook, Twitter and others introduced myriad new forms to interact. For example, teenagers use different abbreviated terms and smiles so it looks like foreign language for older people. And that’s expected changes. People try to save time. Classical style of writing is not so actual nowadays if you are not try show your literacy level and apply for university. Even classical writer made mistakes or exceptions how we call it now. Today we have more grammar exceptions than century ago, and this tendency was much before. 
And last point here is that speakers can break some accepted  rules to sound fresh, unusual and try listener to pay attention to him. 
To sum up, language is a multifunctional communication tool which just changing its forms as all around does.  That’s why I’m against the motion and consider that main thing is a context of speech rather than obsoleting grammar constructions. Language is a not static thing, it’s moving and moving as fast as society does. 

		
