Carter Phipps in his article states that pessimism about our future has become a serious trend among many progressives. The idea that it would be better to live 50 years ago is quite popular because past seems to be more noble, romantic and attractive than the so-called cruel present reality. It’s not surprising that to these people future 50 years seem even more threatening.
Investigating this trend can lead us to the understanding that pessimism is actually not as rational as it pretends. Johan Norberg in his speech compares pessimistic ideas to the “reptilian” self-preservation instinct. He thinks that we are genetically programmed to detect and analyze risks in order to survive. That is why people tend to panic about bad news and to almost ignore good ones. It means that when we here about fire, we are ready to run away like wild animals, but when we read that this year the number of deaths in fire declined by 60%, it’s just the statistics for us. 
Another idea about pessimism expressed by David Runciman is that we are nostalgic about the future world that we imagined being kinds. This dream world has become present reality where we have to pay the bills by ourselves. Up to this point Mr Norberg has also mentioned that plenty of people consider their youth to be the golden age of their life. These two phenomena prevent people from expecting better things from future because they were fooled once before.
Summing up two previously described psychological patterns, there is no surprise that so many people are pessimistic about tomorrow. Plus to this fact, every day we see messages about terroristic acts, natural disasters and criminal activities. Not by chance David Runciman stated that he sees the biggest threaten in information spread. People are scared because the information century has opened for them the window to the endless source of fear and panic. And it is a very powerful reason for Johan Norberg to consider the fear itself to be the most significant threaten for humanity today. 
Personally, I take the side of optimists. It was very inspiring to read that Carter Phillips has discovered the active optimistic trend on the front pages of media. Opposite to pessimism, optimism is a lot more rational. It is based on data and statistics but not on personality or emotional reflexes. Looking at the idea from this side we can find a number of good arguments. For example, as Matt Ridley announced, the poverty has halved over the last century. This trend is a lot stronger than the probability of pandemia over the next years.  By the way, even life level in poorest African countries today is better than in Great Britain a couple of centuries ago. Well, of course poverty, starvation, nuclear war threaten and ecological problems are our present reality and they will not disappear by chance in near happy future, but they will be accompanied and fought by unstoppable progress in the Brave New World.
In last 50 years humanity has seen the enormous boost of innovation both in social life and in technologies. And there are no forecasts for progress to stop. Even if the development slows down, in next 50 years we will see the better world. Pessimists can argue that in XX century our planet suffered so many global catastrophes like the Great Depression of World Wars. Johan Norberg has answered that, although, in XX century everything that could go wrong, went wrong, we see the doubtless progress.
All in all, I believe, similar to Mr Norberg, that we are living in the most harmonious era that the world have ever seen. The overall trend seems to be upward despite some sharp drops. And today it is enough for a man to be thankful for being alive at 31 years old because in the Middle Ages people died at average at 30. 
