All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were like before.
We are surrounded by language during nearly every waking moment of our lives. We use language to communicate our thoughts and feelings, to connect with others and identify with our culture, and to understand the world around us. So, language is a tool that serves one purpose – communication. All people, as subjects of communication, have needs to express our opinion, give guidance, or simply give somebody a piece of our mind, that we satisfy using different resources that language provides us with. There is no doubt, that language is changing over time, it evolves and adapting to the needs of our generation. The change is so slow that from year to year we hardly notice it, except to grumble every so often about the ‘poor English’ being used by the younger generation. So the question is: Are we spoiling the language?
On the one hand, it is pretty obvious that old forms of words and phrases are more elegant from the esthetic point of view – for example, it is much more noble and high-fashioned to be called «milord» or «gentleman», than «homie». But we should realize, that it is not only language that has changed, but the whole time, lifestyle and manners have altered. We don`t have time for afternoon tea and small-talks about the weather anymore – our life style is so fast, so rigid, that we need our language to keep up with the times. Moreover, the globalization process is knocking in our doors, thus facilitating cross-cultural communication. Today, more of the world’s population is bilingual or multilingual than monolingual. That is why every language in the world becomes easier, it loses rule-exceptions, huge grammar forms that are so hard to pronounce and other so-called arbitrary things that are difficult to learn for not native speakers. Even when we speak about native speakers communicating with each other, we should remember - no two individuals speak identically: there are variations according to a speaker’s age, gender, ethnicity and social and educational background. Thus changes of language serve its main purpose – fostering communication.  
On the other hand, there is evidence that « easy » language actually stop people from communication, for example communication between generations – the traditional way of learning, the best way to obtain wisdom. Even if language change is not harmful, the faster language changes, the less new generations will be able to understand what their forebears wrote and it could diminish the level of erudition of the whole generation that will cause even worse consequences since this process goes in geometric progression. Moreover, communication processes are not always transparent. For example, politicians use all tactics of social influence to control their nation. And we are talking not only about public speeches of politicians, that are usually created by linguists and psychologists, but also about language that we all use. And we know for sure – the manner people speak actually reflects the way they think. The only way of resisting this influence is actually to realize the principles and ways how it works. Thereby people should be aware of political games by understanding their language, its standards and norms. Linguistic changes shift these norms, so ordinary people will not get the hidden influence.   
In conclusion, I would like to say, that language is inevitably changing. It may change as a result of social or political pressures, such as invasion, colonization and immigration. New vocabulary is required for the latest inventions, such as transport, domestic appliances and industrial equipment, or for sporting, entertainment and leisure pursuits. And we should give our language a permission to show all of his potential. Nevertheless, other reasons for changing may not be that harmless and we should resist them. 
