All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were like before
I want to start my essay with a small remark: to my mind, we cannot debate about situation with all languages, because there are a huge number of countries and the number of languages is bigger for many times. And I suppose that there are a lot of languages which are inferior now and were inferior in the past and will be in the future. So, in my essay I want to describe my thoughts about situation with two languages: Russian and English. I think I can’t speak about languages becoming inferior. I am not linguist. Languages are changing every day and the question is – Is it good or not? And I want to answer to this question in terms of verbal communication and in terms of writing changes.
We all understand that language is the mechanism that helps us to communicate with others. As John Humphrys said – he couldn’t understand what his youngest son said to his friends. And that is bad for John. But his son didn’t talk to father, he spoke with friends and they understood him – that is the point. And I’m sure when John talks to his son – he understands what he answers. The same thing is with changing using the language by politicians. As John Humphry said “We don’t say word “problem” – we use “issue”, investing money – not spending. They try to sweep under the carpet words, that make us stressed. Is it good or bad? To me it doesn’t matter – I will understand the sense in both situations. Mary Beard explored that Latin was different across the centuries. Can we say that it was changing in good or bad way? Of course, we can’t. We own the language – not it owns us. On the other hand we use languages not only for speaking to our friends or somebody close to us. Language is very important thing when you try to get a job or something like that. Simon Helfer noticed that when we apply for job or a place in university – we have to use academic language and that is very difficult, because this type of language has a certain pattern, rules, etc. If we do not practice it, we will lose a chance to get what we want. And that is the point too. So, in the terms of communication with friends, relatives etc. there are no bad things – language changes because we want it changed, if we understand that without formal language there will not be non-formal. First can create the second, the converse is not true. 
But what is the situation in terms of writing? To my mind, these changes are much more harmful. There are few things influence on it. One of them – new technologies. Mary Beard told that technologies didn’t do that. I am totally disagree with that. And I want to tell my own example. When I was in the school social networks had been created. And I became the user of one of them. And there was one unspoken rule – mistakes no matter. Ok, I hadn’t  mind about that but only till that time when I started to make mistakes in casual things. And that was made me feel horrible. Thanks to God I could force myself not to put a blind eye on it and now, fortunately, my writing Russian is good (I suppose). So, to my mind, in terms of writing we have to prevent creating new “easy” types of writing, because it can lead us to total unknowledge.
To sum up the whole essay I want to say, that languages are changing – and it’s natural, but we have to understand what we can accept and what we must prevent. That is the golden mean. 




