All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were like before. I want to argue for this motion. Language is a way that we have an ability to replicate ideas. The main function of the language is to make people understand each other. So, what’s the matter how they use language if they understand each other perfectly?
A verb might be understood not even being a verb in the sentence. And vice versa, a noun might mean some movement. Use of cliché and stable expressions are floating despite that one may find a contradiction in this thought. It is hard to miss the fact that languages changed and still are changing now. We started to use challenges instead of difficulties, eCommerce instead of online trading and e.g. leads instead of prospects. 
It is even more noticeable in not English speaking countries. There is a great influence of new technologies and processes that originally have English names. As for the Russians, they already accepted words like marketing, traffic, factoring. Even “challenge” and “profit”.
Some scientists say that language is an instinct. Every 3-year child can communicate and make difficult logic constructions without having any grammar rules – grammatical genius. “I want an ice-cream” he says. This is a really complex sentence with a pronoun, verb, preposition and a compound noun! The idea is that a child does not understand all this grammar inventions but he is understood by everyone around. 
Another idea is that our languages do not have any scope or frames. The language itself consists of sentences, understandable expressions, words and letters. Indeed, we can make an endless number of different words, so as expressions and sentences. The only point is to make people around familiar with new word or expression you invented. That’s why our languages are evolving. The language is not strict instrument like numbers which function is to name an amount or volume of something. The language is very flexible tool that may be used in any situation to pass the idea from one person to another. 
Our language is not frozen, things change, people change. We no longer have fax machine, pager and cablegrams. But we have mobile apps, machine learning and drones. So, any attempt to codify the language will meet the impossibility to stop the evolution. Like we cannot stop the eruption of the volcano, it is impossible to prevent emerging of new words and phrases. 
In conclusions, I want to highlight that all the people are free to use the language in a way the wish and see it possible. However, we all should respect the language. Disrespecting the language, a person speaks, means showing disrespect to that person. On the other hand, there is a very vague margin between the esteem and the slight of the language. So, we must firstly respect each other and secondly try to be understood.
