Nowadays we have a lot of sources of information and journalists have much more possibilities to acquire information about the world and things which are happening there. But let’s look at the news that we get. It usually about wars, poverty, climate disasters. Because that attracts people’s attention and often these types of news are made to show that in our country life is not as bad as it could be. But let’s see at the side eﬀect of these news. It has become common to think that our world is becoming worse and in the future thing are not going to be better. Let’s look at our history. In the last 100 years we have experienced 2 world wars, great depression in the US, extreme poverty is USSR after second world war, several bubbles burst in economy . . . this list can be continued with many events. Have we became worse after these events? Maybe for some people, yes. But in general, our life span has increased from 30 almost to 70 years, infants mortality has decreased for 3 times, world’s poverty has decreased, and now we have literally a boom in technology. So from the objective perspective we have become better. One could mention that we have a lot of mental deceases and number of mentally ill people is increasing. But who will care about his/her mental state when he/she has nothing to eat or when his/her life in a great danger because of war or something else? I think it’s great that we have a lot of mental deceases, because some time before we didn’t even know about that and theirs consequences and who knows how many people suﬀered from them in past. Now we are keen to search an appropriate medicine for that. So we are becoming better. But why instead of being optimistic we still have pessimistic thoughts about our future? I like the hypothesis from the debates that it is in our nature. Let’s imagine a situation in the prehistoric time. If some people are optimistic about the world around them and are not thinking how to prevent themselfs from the dangerous animals they will be eaten by tigers or wolfes. From the other hand the pessimistic tribes will prepare for danger and will defeat themselfs and so will survive. The point is that it is not a good idea to be naive optimistic. So when you are pessimistic you will think about consequences of your actions, about dangerous events, about preventing wars and so on. But it is a remant from the past. It is like another our natural levers of inﬂuence like enjoying sex or fearing of height. We can be optimistic and consciousness at the same time. But it is unlikely that we will get rid of pessimism. Moreover our pessimism is supported by the news. In conclusion, it could be said that there are a lot of causes to be pessimistic about our future. But it is not because of the real situation in the world. It is because of our nature and modern ways the news telling us about world’s events.
