To start with I would like to conclude that the world is divided into two parties - prescriptivists and descriptivists. The first ones believe in tough instructions about language usage. Other are sure that we have to let the languages live their lives and alter throughout the time. 
It is undeniable that languages move like water in rivers taking from the banks both rubbish and treasures. That is why new language flows appear after powerful historical events, wars or regime switches. These changes are the reason for prescriptivists to consider languages more and more inferior. But personally, I think that we can’t ignore political environment; all more or less crucial events and trends leave marks on our society. These things force our culture and science to change, why shouldn’t we change the language as well?
This point leads to the second important conclusion: the language is man’s invention and not vice versa. Thereby we command it, we decide whether to change rules or not, we write grammar books. Grammar books are not the Holy Bible that appeared magically throughout the centuries and should be perceived as immutable body of knowledge. These books are invented, developed, projected by scientists and just by speakers. And it means that accepting new trends is not breaking something sacred, it’s just adopting to the new world as we have adopted to telegraphs, then to desktop phones, then to cellular ones and so on. 
Next idea is that language is the only mean for communication with other representors of mankind. Let’s discuss English language that is probably the most popular ‘second’ language on Earth. The situation is so that today there are more non-native speakers than native ones. And plenty of both groups have multiple accents as well. Moreover, people of different ages have their own special words called slang, people of different professions use their own jargon and it is always all about context. We use language to express ideas, to build relations with people, to convince, to ask and to help. We can’t ignore the fact that we all speak differently and it’s natural but not ugly or inferior.
Finally I would like to say that language seems to be similar to fashion. Well, it actually changes not so fast, but it is always pushed forward by brave innovators like the woman who was the first to wear pants or mini or heels. In the same way, I think we should let the languages change the habits and be ready to adopt to the new environment without throwing the classics away because classics is always in trend.       	
