There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays.

Talks about how good and better then today life was a certain period before - are probably the most common types of conversation we have on the planet Earth, especially in our country. People often say and argue that they were living in the better period of history then they are living right now. People always dreaming and shifting their dreams into great novels, movies and spectacles about how romantic the life was in the medieval ages, how free people were been while riding a horse in the vast steppes or while sailing on a wooden ship at the open ocean. But do those moods shows us that there are more reasons to be pessimistic either optimistic about future nowadays?
   During a lot of researches, people tend to be likely pessimistic in their vision of the world’s future, but does it show the real nowadays situation in the whole world or it just based on people’s own thoughts and problems in their personal life’s? For me it pretty much seems to be the second one. From my point of view – right now we are living in the age of the tremendous growth in the all spheres of our life, including the amazing level of science, technologies, innovations and so on and so then. Just a hundred years people couldn’t even image how comfortable and amazing world would get in that short, in terms of history, period of time. People always pessimistic due to their own problems in life’s and often transporting that kind of mood into the whole pessimistic view of the world and our future. Sometimes people say that it was much better when I was a kid, what speakers mentioned in the video, what always means just that they had been facing much less problems in the childhood and hadn’t a lot of worries about the future. It’s in our nature – to worry about the future, because the future, Matt Ridley said on debates – future is always unpredictable, what makes people always say that right now future are the most unpredictable that it ever been before, and it makes them see it in the pessimistic way for some point. There is no doubt that we are still facing a lot of obstacles on our way to the progress – but that’s obvious that this is not unique historical situation. Human society were facing different historical challenges in the absolutely every period of the world’s history, but as far as we get – as easier our lives gets and as more prepared and armed we are. We are much more lucky being thinking how to increase pensions up by 50% during the next year, while sitting in a soft chair in front of TV, rather than just 200-250 years before people were arguing how to fight off enemy’s army, sitting on the cold bench. There is probably no one who would rather be living in the past century, instead of living now, but that would be a lot of people taking the bet to live in the next century, because it getting better with the time, historically. The one more important thing which seems to me a vital point not to be pessimist about the future is that as more resources you have – as faster you may grow. For example, 500 years before, when people didn’t even know what the electricity is, they obviously had extremely lower opportunities to grow. Of course, right after people discover such a huge thing like electricity – the whole social, technology and economy growth starting to be amazing, but such breakthroughs happens really rarely and when none of them are discovered – growth tend to be slow, due to the small amount of tools they have. Nowadays, when we reached such an amazing level of development – we have way more tools and opportunities to grow and develop as fast, as we never had been that lucky to have before. Is it even worth mentioning that the data of economics, medicine, education, mortality, average life expectancy and a lot of other factors grew amazingly comparing to the any other century in the past. For me – this is absolutely straight and obvious that right now we a living a way better life than people ever did and there are no prerequisites to this trend to be continued. As speakers said in the video – in not guaranteed that if today thing are going better then yesterday - it will be better tomorrow, but do we have a lot to worry about in the future?
     To look up for the points what can make people be rather pessimistic than optimistic – Johan Norberg (speaker from the video) gave an amazing example – it’s always been better then before, if we talking about long distances. Every century people are going to the next step of development, even though we had great depression, two world wars, nazism, fascism, and after those awful periods world shows the unbelievable progress. Humanity seems to be going ahead whatever happens to us and that makes me feel that it almost guaranteed that things will go better and better, even if some cataclysms would happen, after all humanity are always going up. Carter Phillips, during his traveling, also mentioned that people are more pessimistic right now about the future. One more reason to that could be that people taking everything we have for granted and not appreciating what we have right now, even simple things like microwave or cooler, comparing it to what were before. That also makes people a bit more pessimistic, because if we will compare our nowadays comfort with how it was before, we probably would be much more optimistic in our expectations. 
     To conclude I want to point one thought that may explain why people are tend to be more pessimistic right now about the future and, at the same time, what going to show why we are always get to the progress. People haven’t ever been satisfied completely; they are not satisfied now and wouldn’t ever be satisfied for 100%. Humans are always lacking of something and being pessimistic about that (and at same time about the future, because they are shifting their mood into future predictions, as I see it), that’s why they are pushing the progress towards all the time, trying to fix and get what they are not satisfied with. Every time they get it, they find another bunch of upsetting and pessimistic things - and circle goes round. Nowadays, having an extremely high amount of tools to work with (technology, education, wealth etc.) and with the history facts that shows how humanity developed and grew even after an extremely awful periods of history, it makes me see the clear and optimistic picture of our future, shining brightly that ever before.
