Essay: There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays.
There is no doubt that our life constantly and quickly changes, and it is quite hard to predict what our future will be like in even, let us say, twenty or thirty years. However, each of us dreams from time to time, makes some plans for the forthcoming years and wonder, whether the future, where our children, grandchildren or we ourselves will live, is better or worse than what we observe now, our present life. Overall, here people tend to be in optimistic or pessimistic mood about the coming years the modern society faces, both sides providing endless arguments supporting this or that position. 
To begin with, as a person, who tries to exercise an optimistic approach to almost every situation in this life, I should say that I look positively to what we are expecting to see in the future world. Maybe I do that simply because I am young – as Johan Norberg in his speech said, young people are often optimistic just because they have little responsibility, less to care about, life seems to be so good, full of great opportunities, etc. But still, if we lower a little bit the degree of bare optimism and turn to statistics, as was done by the members of the “optimists” party during the debates for many times, we will see that there are at least three reasons to be optimistic about the future. Firstly, it is obvious that on the average living standards have become much higher in the world over the last 100 years. Now the most part of the world’s population has better housing, higher income and all the necessities to live normal comfortable life, what is becoming affordable for more citizens of our world nowadays and can be considered to be an ongoing and positive trend. As it was noted by Johan Norberg, the rate of extreme poverty in the world fell down from 80 to 10% during the last century. With the proceeding, extremely rapid evolution of medicine and health care, with more and more people, getting an access to it, we expect to see futher growth of life expectancy as well, which has skyrocketed from 30 to 70 years by present moment, as was mentioned by Norberg. Secondly, endless innovations and new technologies, which have been developed over the last hundred years, have changed lives of millions of people for the better, really simplified our day-to-day routine, making possible and easy those things, the previous generations did not even dream about - from making a free call to a friend, residing in another country thousands kilometers away to possibility of landing on another planet! And this process of inventing something new and implementing it in real life is massive – as it was said during the debate: “Everyday we see somebody coming up with the new innovation!” Thirdly, over the last century our world has made a huge progress towards granting more people with the possibility to enjoy human rights: at first, it was the right to get education, availability to be employed, to vote, etc (what is still urgent for less developed countries), and now people work hard to secure these basic rights for everybody and make it as soon as possible. 
However, some people can be much less optimistic or even pessimistic about the way the world will change in the nearest future, and I can partly agree with them. Indeed, we see new diseases emerging, or how this or that type of illness becomes resistant to drugs. Moreover, now we can observe how diseases can be used by governments in the way to threaten other nations and influence the economic and politic situation all over the world (like swine flu did, for example). Nevertheless, we should remember that new medicines appear every day to combat the most horrible diseases, and the progress in this sphere makes me, personally, believe in best. Moreover, the fact that fears many people not in the future, but even now already, is that with the new technologies and globalization our world has become, as it was called by David Runciman, more fragile, more vulnerable, and unfortunately, the recent splashes of terrorists’ attacks demonstrate it. But still, governments have to use various technologies, latest inventions to guard health and lives of millions of people, and without them this war could be considered to be lost; that is why the futher development in the sphere of technologies should be fostered to be one step faster than terrorists. 
	To sum everything up, there are many reasons to be optimistic or pessimistic about the world’s future. However, positive approach to life, combined with rational, not pessimistic approach, brings much more benefits in my personal opinion.
