There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays. 
I do not agree with the statement that there is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays. There are many people feeling pessimistic about the future, but in most cases those negative aspects of people`s lives and the uncertain future which make them «see a glass half empty» are just caught by mind due to human nature and the environment we are living in while the development world has been going through and our history show that optimism about the future is quite reasonable.
Firstly, many people seem to be pessimistic about our future because of the image they see in the media. As Matt Ridley said, media tend to publish the news causing pessimism in people. They do it not with an intention to make us afraid of something or make our lives worse rather due to the fact that something unusual is more eye- and ear- catching. We do not read stories like «the airplane did not crash» because it is just supposed to be so and it is quite usual, but seeing the news like «air crash takes 100 lives» makes us at least attentive («that`s what you want to read», a journalist, friend of Johan Norberg). Constant news of problems or disasters happening around one day make a person think that those bad things are going to happen later (though hopefully not with him) and that we are heading to somewhere not pleasant at all. However, a lot of extraordinary improvements have recently taken place and they show that our lives do become better. For example, taking the examples provided by Matt Ridley, we can say that mortality went down by 2/3 within last several decades and malaria mortality went down by 60% in the last 15 years. Moreover, David Runciman stated «This is not steady story progress, there are reverses<…>the progress is not steady, it is not regular, it jugs a lot» meaning that there has been progress but many steps backs did take place also. That is true, some civilizations appeared, developed and one day died, but we should not forget that the others appeared too and made a contribution to the future of thedescendants; the world has not been steading, it has always been developing and it is going to develop later on. Pessimists might say that all those technological improvements we have been facing as a new phenomenon society and which do not have analogies in the past can lead to a world disaster (David Runciman), but I agree with Matt Ridley pointing that the main reason for being optimistic about the future is innovation (not just physical innovation but also the way we behave). I believe that the innovative way people are living now is a key to a better future. Not only do we create something new, we also find the ways to control those innovations, in case they are somehow dangerous and might cause huge problems.
In other words, even though there are many problems (or better say challenges) that society can find around (for instance, climate change, economic difficulties, the dangerous mix of technologies, car and airplane crashes and so on)1, history shows that end of one civilization (if happened) ended up with the beginning of another one and the innovative way of thinking (being cautious about the world future and innovations control) we as a new phenomenon society have been using are key and quite valuable reasons for being optimistic about the future of the world.
