All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were like before

I would like to start this essay with a famous quote of an English writer S. Johnson: “Language is the dress of thought”. I believe that communication is what language is about, so this makes it incredibly important, and that is why we are interested in the processes which are taking place inside the language. 
We often say that language is “alive” itself, because it is modifying and changing, some words are getting new meanings, some words and expressions are no longer used and can be found only in dictionaries and of course there are new words coming to the modern language. If we compare the Bible’s text translations into English – the one that made several centuries ago and the modern one, we won’t be able to understand what the verses in the old one are about. Same with Shakespeare poetry – it is converted into modern English so that English speakers can get the sense. 
But with changing of a language’s content we also face another phenomenon – “the quality” is changing as well. As a matter of a fact I agree that language is becoming inferior in some ways (and I believe this would be fair for all most spread languages in the world, though I can judge only upon two of those as I don’t know more). There are a lot of fair and subjective reasons for that.
Using language, we express ourselves in speech, bring our thoughts and ideas, interact etc., no matter if it is a small talk with a colleague, chatting through instant messaging or we are speaking about submitting an official request to a governmental authority. And in all described situations there will be a distinct style of language, so the words and expressions will vary. 
Moreover, looking to a different way of speaking people can make a judgment about many characteristics of a speaker. For example, his or her origin, education level, age. Obviously, we all speak differently as we all have various backgrounds. And as it was mentioned in the video the number of people who speak English has significantly increased – there are more not-native speakers now. And surely not all native speakers are communicating in the perfect Queen English. On the contrary, sometimes it is more of their own language in the English they speak than standard English itself. 
So, it is a fact that a language can’t stay the same. And as there are more and more people who never learned English at academic level, surely overall among all English speakers there will be a huge percentage of those who change it in a way the native speakers won’t like. Yet, they reach that main goal of language – they communicate! And I believe with all mistakes I make while I am writing this essay I am a good example for that: I might not be as good as Cambridge graduates but I can express my thoughts and if I am clear enough I believe it is okay.
I like the example M. Beard brings – there are rules for everything including using the language, but this doesn’t mean that we couldn’t break them to have something new and interesting. I believe those who now are personally offended with what is happening with new way of speaking English would sound bad if they speak to a representative of a 19th century in a way they use constructions and words.  
Of course, there are spheres where good language skills are crucial and only a high level of language is possible and suitable, and there are ones where you don’t pay much attention to it. And I think in the academic environment or among top-managers, for example, the English will only develop for the best, while it will be not that fancy among regular workers. It might happen that in the far future the situation will change as the population will the different and the school education model on teaching will change and people won’t pay as much attention to grammar and this won’t be an issue for anybody anymore. Who knows? As long as the language stays rich and helps us express all shades of what we want to say, I believe we don’t have much to worry about.
But there is another thought on this point I would like to mention. I completely agree with Mr J. Humphrys who said that he believes it is fine of the way of how teenagers are speaking and distorting the words as language is alive and dynamic, but we can’t let happen the changing of name of some important words due to the pollical or whatsoever reasons (and the word “terrorism” is a good relevant example). This substitution might lead to dangerous consequences as this approach leaves us close to the Orwell’s world of 1984 situation. Propaganda of mass-media and the way language is used to achieve sneaky goals is a bigger problem which we should consider I believe. 
