Topic: “All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were like before”
It is a well-known fact that today we are living in an extremely fast-changing world. All modifications affect not only our ways of live but also the ways we speak. That is why some people believe that nowadays different languages are becoming poorer and less diverse. Nevertheless others argue that it is the way languages live.
Taking everything in consideration, I tend to agree with the topic of the motion that in modern world all languages are becoming inferior to what they were like before. First of all it is necessary to mention that nowadays people tend to read less than they used to do due to invention of different gadgets. It is widely known that reading can diverse and improve our language. Unfortunately, people face extremely high tempo of life, so they try to simplify almost everything especially the way of communication. As it was mentioned in the video people can communicate with each other knowing only basic grammar rules and vocabulary, not even trying to use different speech patterns. Furthermore I would like to emphasize that people response to different circumstances by creating horrible jargons, cutting and changing words and in some cases even ignoring grammar rules, which bring a pernicious effect on languages. It was also mentioned in the article that the simplicity of grammar can be harmful. For example one of the researches said “language learning and use would be virtually impossible without systematic rules and restrictions; this generalization applies to all varieties of language, including vernaculars.”
On the other hand it can be claimed that languages change but that doesn’t mean they are decline. One of the major arguments there is that our language changes with us. By this they mean that the emergence of various slangs meets the demand of modern population: new words are crated to describe new phenomena that haven’t existed before. Moreover in today’s world people tend to use different social networks to communicate, so that they spend a lot of time typing massages. That is why some researchers argue that the literacy rate among children is higher now than it was before.
To sum up, I would like to say that we should use language properly and respect it. It is obvious that everything changes around us and language is not an exception, but still we need improve it in a good way. As it was mentioned in the article it is still a doubtful question how the language changes and that linguistic history will be always interested for people.
