The current essay is devoted to discussion upon the matter if the English language is going to the dogs nowadays, in other words, if it becomes worse and more spoilt with colloquialisms, neologisms, slang words and other language means that did not exist in Chaucer’s or Shakespeare’s English language. Chaucer’s or Shakespeare’s English language was considered to be the ideal variation of English for centuries. The first speaker, John Humphrys, agrees with the opinion that the modernization of this kind deteriorates the language. He gives an example of how native English speakers reacted to a non-native kid’s mistaken formulation of a speech: “We don’t tend to say that with a preposition!” He strongly sticks to the view that “one cannot communicate without a basic understanding of certain rules (i.e. grammar rules)”. Besides, he accuses social nets as Twitter of using the inappropriate language full of misspelling, slang words and occasional failures to follow simple language rules. He is a person who prefers following the prescribed rules which has existed for centuries and which are initial and common for the language. In my opinion, he has a logical and scientific type of thinking, and such people tend to appreciate use of the language how it is objectively taught rather than how it is subjectively felt.
The second speaker, Oliver Kamm, who is against the motion, objects to the opinion that the language should continue being as it was at Chaucer’s or Shakespeare’s era. Interestingly, he compares the phenomenon of a language with an instinct, and as arguments he gives some examples when children under school age say different phrases of rather composite constructions, such as “I want an ice-cream”. This phrase consists of a number of words, of main and additional members of a sentence (an objective). The fact that a small child builds the sentence correctly – all words in a correct order, does not forget articles or an “s” when speaks in plural (another example) is that the child does that instinctively. Oliver Kamm hints at the fact that people of older age, such as teenager or adults, use rare or extraordinary speech patterns or some words and expressions of their individual taste has a lot to do with instinct and linguistic feeling.
In the article by Joan Acocella there are distinguished two types of people, depending on how they think people should use the language: the prescriptivists and the descriptivists. The former ones tend to instruct others how to use words and expressions, how to write and how to speak, they are strongly stuck to the language rules and the vocabulary that remain unchangeable for centuries, whereas the latter ones support the idea that as long as the speaker can explain why he or she speaks or writes this way or that way, why he or she uses namely this word or uses an individual formulation of a sentence, whereas traditionally it must be said in a different way, the speaker can legitimately do that. No matter if one will be just understood in accordance with the context, provided his/her way of saying is relevant, or this will be a big contribution into the already existent language – the descriptivists suggest that language must contain multitudes and everyone is allowed to use it inventively and profoundly feeling it. According to the article, such modern dictionaries as Webster’s Third New International Dictionary, published in 1961, or the American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, published in 1969, were strongly criticized on first days of their issue. Nonetheless, the lexicographers who created these dictionaries worked upon their great projects with the aim to enlarge and develop the language. They expanded English vocabulary by adding new so-called “usage labels”, such as rather specific words “nonstandard” and “substandard”, or completely uncommon forms like “ain’t” and “irregardless”. Initially the words were considered strange, unknown and were required to be removed from the vocabulary, but later on, some of them, such forms as “ain’t”, a colloquial form for “am not”, and “ain’t I”, were accepted by linguists; the form “ain’t I” was even more preferable.
Nowadays different kinds of linguistic contribution are welcome to be introduced. Between people, especially scientists, linguists and other people dealing with languages different discussions of linguistics as a science, linguistic phenomena and linguistic history are held from time to time. At debates of this kind it is discussed whether the newest ideas are suitable for the language on its today’s stage. Whereas linguists who are in favour of prescriptivism resist all kinds of language inputs and individual authors’ use of language, descriptivists along with the cognitive psychologist Steven Pinker suppose that to follow old rules and to resist any new or occasional changes is like to live “believing in old wives’ tales”, without developing oneself as a rational, thoughtful, creative and feeling person.
Descriptivists’ and Steven Pinker’s point of view correlates in a way with Mr. Kamm’s perspective. As language is like an instinct, it cannot tread water, failing to change and develop for ages, as well as the mankind changes and develop with time. Even particular people’s instincts can change, appear and expire. To my personal opinion, I tend to agree mostly with Kamm’s point of view, as I sometimes tend to say non-commonly formulated phrases dependent on the situation or how I feel I should say that, as well as I am often able, as a linguist, to understand what one means saying something in an extraordinary way, and even sometimes make assumptions why he or she says that so and what he or she feels at that moment.
