 I am for the motion “There more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays”. It doesn’t means I am a pessimism but I agree with the a lot of David Runcimon’s statements in “The new optimism” video. 
	When we discuss about the humanity future we always compare our past, present and future. Joahn Norberg focused on the recent history, he mentioned decrease of poverty and increase of people’s life expectancy. “History and statistics – there are make me optimism” – he said, “history is convince” – he concluded. All speakers for the optimism spoken that violence has been decreasing throughout the history. Carter Phipps mentioned the optimism thinkers too: “These thinkers argue that we simply don’t appreciate how good things are in comparison to how they have been historically, and how much better they are likely to become in the near and far future”.
But David Runcimon argues with the previous speakers because the historical term we usually use to compare our history and future is approximately two or three hundred years. This term is too short for the history, the human history is a several thousand years. In this period people faced with the global catastrophes and even destroying whole civilizations. This is the reason we can’t be sure our future is necessary going to be better than our present. 
Of course humans achieved really progress during the whole history. But progress is not the line, it has increases and decreases.     
Certainly, if we look back for two or three centuries we can see the good dynamic of  human life quality. But in our present life we faced with many global problems every day. 
The problem #1 for today is terrorism. It spread all over the world. We hear about terrorism attacks from news almost every day. Terrorists can choose any country, any city, any nation. We also have many problems with the climate changes and protection of the environment. The air in the cities is very polluted and we don’t know how it will influence on our health in future. The poverty is global problem for many developing countries. The nuclear weapons is real threat not only for developed countries but for whole civilization of Earth. 
Maybe such pessimism as I described is not rational and a lot of people are quite pessimistic because today we are more informed about the global changes that it was two or three centuries ago. But on the other hand our ancestor  have been waiting the Apocalypse during all the human story. They suspect that future can be worse then present. Lucky we, the Apocalypse didn’t come.
If we look for the Russian history we can remember the 1917 revolution. The people who were on the revolution side and support the communist thought that new political regime will be better than previous. The really believed our country will come to the “bright” future. But in one year after revolution they faced with terror, starvation and war. The bright side of the revolution – the win in the World War II and opening up the space in the Soviet Union. 
This example, I suppose, can tell us about how we have to think today  - we need to hope for the best and prepare to the worst.
In conclusion there is the reason I am for the motion “There more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays”. Because the human story and our present dictate to us this standpoint. But it is also a reasons to be more responsible and think about our future.
