All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were like before
It is easy to notice that languages today are no more the languages they were like before. In the very early times human speech was too simple, people preferred gestures instead of language. Then came the era of philosophy, where the key value was the ability to think and to speak fluent and beautiful. Time passed, the language changed, some words came out of circulation, others entered. Changes have affected not only vocabulary, but also grammatical constructions. Long abstruse phrases of philosophy times are not in demand now. Simple and concise sentences - that's what is valuable in the modern shortage of time. Someone could say that languages of today are inferior to theirs ancestors, but in my opinion languages nowadays stand higher on the evolutionary ladder. Language changes but that doesn’t mean it’s in decline.
First of all, globalization caused the mixing of languages. Now, in every language you can find a lot of words that substitute their originals. And this is not bad at all; it simplifies communication and allows people from different countries to understand each other in a quicker way. And as Oliver Kamm, commentator at The Times, says, the language is a river, it changes continuously. We should not learn at school the only one proper set of rules. We already know the rules of language through our instincts. We need to feel the language and we always will know how to speak.
Second, the language should help people to share ideas, to be utilitarian, useful rather than being the means of art or something like this. Not in the first place, in any case. Of course, we must express our thoughts in a clear and understandable way, but we should not overload it with epithets and means of expressiveness like before. As it was written in the article “The English Wars” by Joan Acocella: “To write well you had to be a good person”. This idea belongs to E. B. White, a professional essayist renowned for his clarity and unpretentiousness. He believed that style takes its final shape more from attitudes of mind than from principles of composition.” So we need to be able to express our thoughts more than just saying beautiful words.
And finally, someone may argue that digital technology has a pernicious effect on language, but in fact children who text a lot have higher rates of literacy. The modern technologies provide us with a programs and resources that correct our grammar and gives us the ability to find the meanings of words that we don’t know, it saves our time and allow us to focus on something that is much more important. At the same time technologies are the cause and means of creating new word and grammar forms. This is a part of evolution. And evolution makes people better and smarter.
To sum up, we need to keep up with times, it is necessary for the language to meet the requirements of modern society, which are simplicity, clarity and the ability to adapt quickly to changes we face. In this case I do not agree with the motion that all languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were like before. Languages changes, this is true, but they become superior rather than inferior.

