There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays


The way one person looks at the Life itself and its complexities matters. In fact, I believe, this attitude influences on how one sees, deals and accepts things and thus in some ways leads to personal feeling of happiness or misfortune. And naturally some people would be optimists with a bright viewpoint, but others won’t be that cheerful at all. Optimists in bad situations will see hope in the possible future changings and the pessimists tend to take things that are usual for them as granted, not counting blessings, and complain about what they don’t have. 
Personally I am more likely to be called a pessimist, or a critical realist. I don’t have a strong opinion on the stated issue because as lawyers say: “it depends”, meaning that the answer to a question depends on the side of the one who answers is. 
On one hand, I know there has been a huge improvement since the past, I am sure that involves most spheres of a human being life. We (and here I must say that it would be fair to mention that by “we” I can only mean people who are more or less in middle class or higher) live in an amazing world with so many opportunities, ways of expressing yourself, hopes, abilities to learn and see the world, possible achievements. As it was mentioned in the discussion comparing to even a 20 years ago period now we have better technologies that help us on a daily routine and in business, better healthcare and medicine, better infrastructure and so on. The mankind made a huge progress in establishing human rights and legal system development as well. And I am pretty sure that it will only develop in the best way, as we see a tremendous growth in technology literally every day. 
 But obviously, on the other, we couldn’t close our eyes on that the new progress leads to other global problems which were also mentioned in the video: poverty, ecological problems, overpopulations, terrorism and others and. So, compensating one issue we often generate another and since that have to deal with new issue. As one of speakers “took” the idea from my mouth – the fact that it has become better since the prior times doesn’t mean that it is going to improve in the future. And of course there a lot of things that are uncertain, and one can only foresee or guess how it will end.
But what is more important – isn’t that some kind of hypocrisy that wealthy citizens of prosperous countries with awards and nice jobs speak about the progress in the steadily improving future? Surely all possibilities are open for the so called “golden billion”, but would we forget about the rest of the world? Statistically, even now in 2017 many people are starving, homeless or dying of illnesses which are easily treated. Meanwhile states’ budgets are spent for, let’s admit it, useless things such as space exploration, i.e. In other worlds, I mean that there are two different worlds: the, lets call it, Western one, which has solved basics problems many years ago and is open for coming improvements and “challenges”, and the other world that is really far from being involved for example in discussions of deep social issues in USA because of which D. Trump was elected. It reminded me of one common expression “white people’s problem”, which means a self-irony of a person saying that and admitting that his or her problems have nothing to do with real problems such as hunger, insecurity, fear, death that are regular for the whole nations… So, for those who are struggling now might be not that optimistic in the future as well.

Summarizing, I want to say that certainly the future is going to bring us a lot of good things and improvements our ancestors couldn’t even imagine. But in truth this will be pointless from the point of view of the whole humankind if those who have the advantages won’t take care of those who are in need. Unfortunately, I (realistically or pessimistically) should admit that most of the decision makers are not that idealistic as myself, so, probably in the upcoming we will end up with world with great life for half of the population and with miserable being for another. 
