All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were before.
I do not agree with the statement. There are several arguments supporting my point of view.
First of all, it is necessary to state that in the video as speakers for the motion «Between you and I…» so as their opponents agree on the fact that language is living and developing. Both teams are also sure that language is about the way humans communicate and replicate their ideas. So, my point is that no matter how languages change within the time, if humans still can use them to express their ideas and feelings, languages are helpful and fulfill their tasks greatly. That`s why we can`t call them inferior to the ones they used to be.
More than that, we can even assume that a language becomes even «better» and richer as people living nowadays, for example, may (and actually do) add some new, never existing meanings to the words. As Oliver Kamm stated, «No English speaker (see no any-language-speaker) adopts a purely consistent approach that the origins of the word determine its meaning». According to him, the word «enormity», for example, used to mean something of a huge size and not something of great wickedness.
To continue the topic of language enrichment, I would like to point out that not just new meanings have been always added to the existing words. Entirely new words and phrases appear. As an example, we can take borrowed words. Thanks to them, not just the borrowers can describe the «used-to-be nonexistent realities», but very often people from different countries and even continents can understand each other. The fact that this takes place proves one of Mary Beard`s ideas I truly like: the languages are not the thing that owns us, it is the thing that we own to do jobs.
To add to the idea, I am deeply concerned that languages are a great tool for not just delivering messages (the essence). Its usage is also a brilliant way of making others understand and see communicators` distinctions and similarities. And again taking into account that new (and frequently unwelcomed) ways of expressing ideas have taken place nowadays (for instance, the Internet language or newly organized slangs), I am sure that the ones needing to be a part of a certain group or the ones trying to achieve the same goal use the same language. In most cases it does not have much in common with the conventional one, but that does not mean that those who do not use the «right», «correct» or «standard» language should be abused of adding to the process of making language inferior to the one it used to be. At last, the process, as I stated several times before, even does not take place.
So, I do not agree that languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were like before. In opposite, I am sure that the key role they are playing is still there and the fact that they are getting richer is just one more argument for that.
