Debate in English language
It is very interesting and intriguing to argue on the subject “All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they use to be”. Languages are the constructed complex expressions humans use to communicate among themselves. I stand to throw this fallacy and misleading motion into the bin irrespective that languages do not maintain the original form/nature but has to pass through continuing process of metamorphosis as scholars testify but the fact is, this reason has no bearing to talk of inferiority of languages of late, I do hereby elaborate my points to speak vehemently against the motion:
The world of global village (trade and economics) is making every language useful and popular as most products and currencies names depict the language these things are originating from. Example: Rubbles, Yin, Benz, Ford and Giorgio and Armani, etc.
Technologically, that is the use of computer and internet has several programs and software to help one learn more than one foreign language easily. This goes to tell how rational humans appreciate the essentiality of languages and for that matter goes ahead to learn, program it and make it accessible. Let’s look at it from this point of view; information can also be translated cheaply and efficiently for educational, pleasure and informative purposes as they are originally from foreign language. Why such acts by humans if languages are becoming unpopular?
Thirdly, socially:  languages are of importance as they portray the culture of a specific country or group of people. Every country tries to promote and make the maternal dialect or language accessible in terms of learnability for both native and foreign learners to get acquainted and maintain its culture. Examples: Food, clothing, dance, music and many others.
Furthermore, on political scope or grounds, languages are growing above inferiority due to the fact that, there are embassies representing the affairs, interest and cordiality of her motherland on a foreign geographical location. The must and obvious question is that how can a country’s representatives survive and seek to the interest of their country when communication becomes a barrier?
Lastly, the phenomenon of borrowing of words occurs in and from all languages around the world as scholars have testified, this support the fact how every language is gradually become prominent. Example is in the world of discovery as in nature, fashions, machines, diseases, just to mention but a few.
To close the curtains on the motion, I have a strong conviction that all my suppositions expressed go well deep to say how relevant, popular and usefulness most languages thus every single language is growing healthily and exhibiting the fact that more languages are manifesting famously and magnificent. I do believe you are going to concord with me even when you beg to differ my points above after the question in brackets is answered: ( If languages are becoming inferior then how do we attribute renown and most international languages to a group or a country? )
Thank you.

