There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism 
about the future of the world nowadays

There is an idea that optimism about the future of the world depends on environmental, social, health and political issues such as poverty level, mortality rates, democracy index and etc. Before speaking about the state in which these indicators are now and how they probably will change in the future, we need to address another issue of what means being pessimistic or optimistic about on the human level. Then we go back to the social level and add some statistics.
Omitting policy and social issues, I would like to start with psychological point of view and to describe the nature of pessimism and optimism. Pessimism is a mental attitude. Pessimists anticipate undesirable outcomes from given situations. And in most cases it works like the mechanism known as autosuggestion. Autosuggestion is a psychological technique related to the placebo effect, developed by apothecary Emile Coue at the beginning of the 20th century. It is a form of self-induced suggestion in which individuals guide their own thoughts, feelings, or behavior. It is not difficult to suppose that those who always or mostly think about bad that going to happen, let it happen, especially if the outcome of the situation depends on them, because they pre-configured themselves for this. Autosuggestion works the same way for optimists: suggestion of positive emotions about some situation in future contributes to the implementation of what was planned. Thus, our expectations depend on our psychological attitudes and self-perception. 
There is two main points about expectations that we make. Firstly, our expectations should be rational. Optimism is not directly related to an active action, as well as pessimism is not necessarily means being passive. There are people who don’t do anything to improve their lives, natural and social environment they live in, but they truly believe that everything is going to be good. There are also pessimists who work hard but do not expect that they can succeed. What I wanted to say is that we need to assess the situation realistically and think about how we can improve it. Even if expectations seem pessimistic, we need to find and to derive benefits from it and think about how we can avoid this in future.
Now let’s go back to the society level and expectations about our future. The second aspect of being pessimistic or optimistic is an understanding that everything is relative. Even in dark periods of our history people find something to feel happy about. When soldiers in the war fight for their country they believe in a bright future, they are optimistic, if not, they are not likely to win the battle. Or when after hurricane, earthquake or other natural disaster people coming back to normal life, they thank God for staying alive. And despite the fact that they were left with nothing, they start a new life, in the hope that it will be better than the previous one. They perceive this as the fact that fate gave them a second chance. Things are not so bad when you look at them from a different angle.
Referring to the statistics, we can say that the phrase “It used to be better” does not mean that it really was better in previous times; this is nostalgia for the past, which cannot be turned back. In fact indicators of quality of life have improved. The mortality rates, according to the Matt Ridley, one of the UK’s most popular science writers, have decreased by 60 percent comparing to the past. Democracy index in many countries has grown significantly for the past decades, accordingly to the The Economist Intelligence Unit. Johan Norberg, author and documentary filmmaker from Sweden, has given an example of some county in Africa which is in complete poverty. He said that 200 years ago Great Britain, one of the richest countries in the world, was exactly like this African county. That means that things improve. Even if the situation with ecology is not as good as with demographical changes, people try to be better at this: there are a lot of organizations, aimed at improving the environment.
There always would be those who will be pessimistic, it is in human nature. But I would suggest you to be rationally optimistic. Carter Phipps mentioned several authors that think: “we simply don’t appreciate how good things are in comparison to how they have been historically and how much better they are likely to become in the near and far future”. And this is true: technology and industry transformed human life for the better. And economic, social and technological changes are coming soon. So let’s be optimistic and help these changes to happen.
