All Languages Nowadays Are Becoming Inferior to What They Were Like Before
Many people nowadays believe that all languages in the world nowadays are going to the dogs
and the proper use of the language is not nearly as important as it once was. Other party claims
that language changes should be treated not as degradation or downfall, but as an evolution.
The first group’s stance is based on several core arguments. First of all, they say that grammar,
punctuation and spelling are ignored by larger and larger groups of people in everyday life, on
the Internet, even on the TV and radio. According to the so-called broken windows theory, if
some people violate the rules of language, then other people do the same. This leads the
language to become inferior. Secondly, supporters of the idea blame politicians for
deteriorating language through indistinct and ambiguous statements. If phrases and statements
are not absolutely clear, then language becomes meaningless.
The supporters of another point of view suggest their own arguments. Firstly, they claim that
the society has changed radically over the last century, and the language should do so. For
example, English speaking has hugely expanded over the last century and there are more nonnative speakers than there are native speakers, and this fact inevitably influences the language.
Secondly, this group states that languages have many dialects, which use different forms of
language in different contexts. People do not need to master the register of standard language
as it is written and spoken for communication with friends, because it is only one form of
language. In addition, supporters assert that native speakers already know exactly grammar
because of the instinct they have. Thus, the language should not have obviously right body of
rules or one style manual.
In my opinion, languages are not deteriorating in their main function, which is concluded in the
transition of ideas between people. The language has no single meanings and the origins of the
word do not necessarily define its sole meaning. Therefore, language changes are not
degradation, but evolution.
