There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays.

While I was watching the video, I was thinking about my attitude to the motion. And at start of writing of my essay I want to agree with the statement. And now I will describe why I  think so.

First of all, because of the sense of statement. Now we are more pessimistic than before. Two speakers told us about improvement in our lives: life expectancy is longer, welfare is bigger, poorness halfed etc. But, unfortunately, to my mind these facts do not correspond to our today motion. They are more suitable to one of our previous motions – “We have never had it so good”. And yes – we haven’t. So, I suppose that our motion does not allow us to use the past as an argument. We can use only our vision of present and future, that is unknowable. That is the first point why I agree with the statement.

Secondly, as the 1st speaker said: ‘There are no news about aircraft landed succesfully’. It means that there are no almost good news, because they can’t shock you (2nd speaker). There is one economic reason – mass media need profits, and the most popular news are those which touch our minds and hearts. I can’t say that it is a good fact, but it is a real. Now we hear almost every day about different natural disasters, terrorism, strikes etc. Good things habitual for us now and that’s why we don’t pay a lot attention to that. And this is also the reason why there is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays.

Thirdly, I suppose that pessimism is good for humanity in some cases. I tried to imagine what will be if we all become optimists. And the answer is “Crash” and this is awful for me, and I think for you too. Why is that? The reason is simple: if everybody is optimistic, there will no reasons to change anything, because everybody is “happy”. If we don’t change anything, there will no any improvements in the world and people start to degrade. I will give some examples. Now most countries have demographic problems - mortality above fertility and authorities make efforts to change it. Some years ago China had the opposite situation – fertility was much more bigger than mortality. On the one hand, it is good – the nation will not die out, bit on the other hand, the more people in country we have, the more difficult to provide them everything necessary. And that is why China started national program “One family – one child”. Somebody can tell that it is cruel, but it works. Now fertility is still bigger than mortality but the level is lower and China becomes more powerfull. That is why a few years ago it becomes allowed to have two children in the family. So, my point is that if China had an optimistic view about this situation, now we would have a lot of Chinese migrants in the world and a weak China.

And, finally, future is unknowable. I think that rational pessimism is needed. If you are preparing to the worst, the future will not be able to surprise you in bad way. And also I can say that it might cause optimism in people’s minds. So be ready to bad things now to get good emotions in the future.

To sum up, I want to stress, that people are likely to be pessimists, because number of reasons: improvement in the past cannot guarantee improvement in the future, because it is unknowable; mass media give us a pessimistic news to get profit; pessimism also can be useful in some cases: to avoid the terrible consequences of the present, and to be ready to the worst situations.
