All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were like before.
That’s been decent amount of talks and argues between prescritivists and descriptivists about how we need to speak our language. Linguistic history was full of proponents of both sides, who have been fighting for their view of how language has to be spoken in all aspects of people’s lives.
        I strongly believe that there are certain amount of rules in any language which have to be followed everywhere and every time, whether you talking about and in what kind of situation you are. At the same time, regardless this decent amount of grammar rules which you definitely have to know even to operate and use language correctly, languages couldn’t be legislated and driven in a certain frame. From my point of view – any language is the special, developing and growing day by substance, extremely sensitive to any, even minor society changes, technological progress and a lot of other external factors. It pretty much seems that all strong language rules of all languages in the world have been determined centuries before, when most of nowadays, present social realities did not yet exist at all, what makes desire to save them at least a little weird. 
       I do think that languages became better for last centuries, inasmuch as a sharp technological grew came up and helped people to communicate much more easily, more often and on a much larger distances that in ever been before. Thankfully to technological progress and the whole globalization around all, what actually was the result of that progress, all cultures in the world in varying degrees penetrated into each other and as a result put changes into every existed language in the world. Right after internet reached the high level of availability for the most part of the world – languages started to change extremely fast. Nowadays people know and have tools to learn almost all the existed information in the world via internet. It makes people speak differently, communicate in their  own group, specified by age or occupation sings, which always leads to appearance of their own slang, style of talking, pronouncing and way of expressing their thoughts. I truly believe that this is the pure positive factor in our languages history, because it makes us speak better, being much more aware, having much more tools to communicate with each other on a distance and sharing the best between each language.
       At the same time other opinion also has it place to be. Opposition supporters could name for their favor such reasons as losing the weight of grammar rules in languages, which roots deep in history. It also a point for the motion that nowadays the expected literacy level decreased a bit, if we talking, for example, about job applications, following letters and even then about public politicians speeches.   
      Overall, it become obvious that languages have undergone huge changes for previous tens of years due to globalization changes, from my point of view, and came back much stronger, a bunch more suitable for nowadays realities and made our communication between each other much easier and effective.
