All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were like before.

Firstly, I would like to note that any suggestion about any language cannot be considered separately from the people who use this language. Nowadays our society differs a lot from the one 100 years ago.  During these years, the migration of people around the world was such significant that today we can see Indians who live in England for several generations and feel like British, people from North Africa who feel like French. 

And we should not forget about a technical progress and the influence of modern technologies on the society. The Facebook, the Twitter, messengers and other new applications changed the way how, where and when people communicate.

Thus, we have at least two big things that changed the society and if the society changes then the language changes, too. Obviously, the language as a tool of a communication cannot be written in a stone when the world is changing. It is not good or bad, it is a natural phenomenon.

People who argue for the purity of the language usually forget that the “ideal” language they are defending was also attacked by the pedants but like 100 years ago. As for English language, I suppose that even the most passionate grammar purists do not use a word “thee” that was widely used by their beloved Shakespeare. 

Today when people of the different countries and the different languages can easily reach each other by the online services it becomes much more important to speak one language, than speak a proper language. You can be brilliant in English grammar and make a phrase in a perfect subjunctive mood, but sometimes you are easier understood if you use simple grammar constructions.  Someone will say that such attitude makes the language poorer, even inferior to the classic one, but I do believe that it is much better to communicate with the grammar mistakes than not to communicate at all as being afraid of making even a tiny error.

It should be noted that even I do support the evolution of the language as the communication tool I still believe that there should be a literary language and this kind of language should preserve its state. The language of literature has different purpose than the communication tool, it is supposed to teach the readers, to widen their minds and to be an example. The literary language is a way to keep the national identity of people. Even now, when I’m typing this essay with US-English keyboard, the text editor will mark “a colour” as a mistake, and I’m sure that most of British will be offended by such spell check. 

The other important reason for trying to preserve literary language is that there are processes of globalization and someday all people on the planet will speak some weird combination of English, Spanish and Chinese (or other languages). 

Thus we should try to keep classic language by reading and more importantly writing books, but not to complain too much about “w8ing 4 u”. 

I do not think that language becomes inferior it is just different from the language of our great grandparents and our great grandchildren will probably speak completely different language and we will be that pedants who don’t understand those “new words”.



