There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays.

The modern man has a lot of problems. Throughout the all life he faces lack of attention of parents, but great expectations, violence in society, difficulty of choice in different areas of life and so on. It lasts from childhood to old age. There are a lot of reasons to be pessimistic. Carter Phipps in his article ‘Progress or Pessimism: How Should We Think About the Future?’ says that a lot of people are pessimistic. It is hard to be optimistic when life tests you for strength: climate change, the economic difficulties of developed and developing nations, the dangerous mix of technology and terrorism are around you.
But is it really in nowadays became worse than before? And is it really no clearance in the future? I don’t think so. I disagree that there is more cause for pessimism about the future today.
First, the progress made our life more comfortable and I think his tendency will carry on. We can move long distances with cars, trains and aircrafts. We can connect with people any time from any place with phone and internet. The life expectancy is growing thanks to development of medicine. But I think the science is capable of more. Maybe in the future people will be able to find a cure for cancer and for other diseases. Maybe artificial intelligence will simplify our life giving us more time for things and people we love. There is a potential for future progress.
Second, in the future we always enter with some experience. We can fix mistakes of past. We have opportunities to make everything better because we know how not to do.
Also I think that pessimism is dangerous and contagious. Pessimism is related with fear, estrangement, surliness, closeness. When there is decadent mood, you become unproductive, lazy and tired. The world is running out from under the feet. All of us need support from each other when it comes to our future.
I don’t call to be positive in every moments, I understand that it’s impossible. Life is different, sometimes we need to be sad, sometimes it’s naive to be optimistic, but it’s important to stand up and move on to the future, to wonderful future, to our future.
I want to finish this essay with a quote of Victor Hugo: “There is nothing like a dream to create the future. Utopia today, flesh and blood tomorrow”.
