All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were like before.

Throughout time the language changes. It's always been like this but in modern society the problem of mutual understanding is very acute. The development of new means of communication is dangerous and poorly understood consequences. There is an opinion that this is normal and the language should change and develop. But the question is what is the development of language in general and do we have now something unusual?

Language is highly adaptive and continually evolves in order to allow it to be an effective communicative environment. Languages never stop developing, there is no point where you can assume that a language has reached a point of perfection. Languages didn't develop under strict guidelines. Conservative, static approach towards can strangle the expressiveness of the language. Spoken grammar is different from written grammar but ultimately all are correct in specific contexts and what is appropriate in a pub might not be appropriate in an academic essay. 
However, there is a difference between evolving language and just getting things wrong. There are some descriptive grammars that are better than merely prescribing 'rules', they give rules of language in use in specific contexts. 

Ultimately, I believe that any dialect is equally valid as another, but people operate in different linguistic communities and relevance is determined by this. The standardisation of a way of speaking is to have one common dialect for a nation-state to communicate with it does not mean that regional dialects are inferior or debased but simply relevant for that town. Language and its so-called rules are only as valuable as the power-class that upholds them. The class prejudice by the defenders of the class system does not consider how money plays a role into so-called 'correct speaking'. Class is identified with how language purists would desire the language to remain. Language purity is the vestige of those who have a stake in the old order or class structure. There is a logic to grammatical syntax that must be observed, however words and there meaning along with the syntax will change. 

Language is not empirical, so there is no such thing as 'right' or 'wrong' language. We have many different registers; we can write an essay, talking to your grandmother, chatting to friends at a party, or being interviewed by an employer, using different language choices for each. Neither of these choices are inherently better than the other, they are just different examples of language at work. You can catch when Heffer  was introduced as a writer for the daily mail. I found it very ironic that he used the term 'beef' in his opening monologue. When surely that's the colloquial 'improper' use of language. The phrase 'going to the dogs' in the title is another example of this. To be prescriptivist and think that language was somehow better back in your day is a trick of nostalgia and arrogance. So this is common to all because society affects us.

Our world is changing and doing this quickly and language is always changing. Language deal with it and there is no problem. But still I want the language would contain less slang borrowed words and abbreviations from on-line. People should think about his speech and try to preserve native pure language as cultural heritage
