There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays.
	I’ll start from defining pessimism and optimism for future. Pessimism for future means, that later humanity will regress economically, mentally etc. In other words, poverty will grow, less people will have access to medicine, technologies and other things, that make our life easier and safer, which will cause more people to become unhappier. Optimism for future will mean opposite things will happen.
Now let’s talk about economic view of the future and how much unemployment will be present in our world in future, and thus, poverty. New factories and IT or bank companies are built every year, this is what gives more job places for people. Small business, like shops, is situated in cities with these companies but will most likely unable to exist with high poverty level. Developed countries have people population decreased every year, whilst developing countries population is growing. Companies are built mostly in developed countries, while factories are built everywhere, closer to places, where minerals are mined, but are preferably built outside of developed countries because of huge cost for ecology safe equipment etc. it needs. IT companies, mostly, are built to increase technology level of the world, while banks are there to supply factories and miners and other companies with loans, so they could buy equipment and supplies for buildings and mines. This is most of the income of the banks in the world. With decreasing oil capacities and increasing oil production less and less oil will present, and thus less oil station are going to be built and other are going to be depleted, which will lead to mass unemployment in countries with oil extraction, same is true for every mineral. Farm machinery is also reliant on oil, as well as gas, which will lead to less food produced for humans and furthermore increased unemployment in terms of agrarian industry and more people will starve, as where poverty is huge, population is growing rapidly. This will also mean fewer banks will be built and lead to major poverty in developing countries, most of their income consists of mineral industries, oil mostly. IT companies are dependent on banks and overall poverty, as they profit off services they provide and technologies that people buy. With increased poverty level less people are going to buy technologies and IT companies will lose their profit to the point of being bankrupt. Even though oil will deplete in roughly fifty years, other resources, such as coal and various ores are going to present for up to 200 years by modern forecasts that leaves a glimpse of optimism. New power supplies, that will replace oil, are developed, and new agricultures are raised using genetic modification, but are not even considered as replacement right now. This is an economic view of future and a major point for pessimism about the future, as it is not known if 50 years will be enough for solution to be found, this is first time humanity tackled that type of problem.

	Let’s note, that world became safer, wealthier, has less poverty overall (from 80% in some regions one hundred years ago to 10% in current world) and more people have access to technologies. That was pointed out by every speaker. This is a healthy trend for world, but, as pointed by Laura, it doesn’t mean things will continue to get better. Matt brought a thought, that innovations are what makes world better and ideas are not going to deplete. That could be a good thought, but he didn’t point why innovations are what make world better and didn’t prove why innovations will continue to happen, though some may argue, that it’s evident. It also worth noting, that we always consider pessimism for problems we never fought before, as stated by one of speaker. Almost every point here is a point against pessimism. I was very disappointed, that no speaker mentioned any study about people overall happiness, which could be a good point for or against the motion, depending on information is will provide.
	With all these points, I’m going to vote against the motion, as I consider, that humanity overcame every problem it was fighting and solutions to most problems are moderately developed.
