Is the bottle of wine is half full or half empty?
Is it rational to be optimistic or pessimistic nowadays? There are a lot of great technologies and achievements appears today from one had, but from another one we face with big amount of problems and even scary about the future by human being nature. 
Sometimes people are very confident about their own future and perspectives, because of education, wealth or their potential, but at the same time they deeply pessimistic about the future of their own country or even entire world because of every day bad news about new diseases, tragedies and death. If we feel more in control of our lives, we tend to be happier, healthier and more optimistic about the future. This could also help to explain the gap between individual and societal optimism: since we are in direct control of our own lives but not the destiny of the nation we feel more optimistic about ourselves.
Let’s take a look to some opinions from today debate, but first of all let’s consider who are the optimists and the pessimist. The optimist is an individual who looks to a bright side of life, he believes that one way or another everything will turn out the right. The pessimist is a people who think that things come crashing down and there is no reason to believe that it will be better; we have too many troubles for that. As Carter Phipps said it is all about climate changes, the economic difficulties of developed and developing nations, the dangerous technologies and terrorism, the ongoing poverty, inability of governments to respond to these significant issues and that's how some people find themselves losing faith in our collective future.
Matt Ridley, author of The Rational Optimist, can say that present is such better that past and it is a standard procedure of historical lifecycle. And it is all about our experience and perception. His opinion based on historical facts, statistics and most of all, on technology and innovation. It seems reasonable for me, because people, devices and even cities are becoming more clever and convenient. From this side we step by step trying to make our life better and can feel pretty optimistic about a future, just because we feel the progress. Matt Ridley also noticed that in his opinion people are supposed to be thankful and grateful, they just need to capture some inspiration and faith, and optimism about what will happened next, because still a lot of things are depend on our decisions and attitude. And innovation and all new techniques and achievements go from optimism, not from pessimism. And it is quite true. A lot of great things became itself from extraordinary, even stupid ideas. But because of faith and optimism it is what it is for now. Matt Ridley also agree that future is hard to be predictable, but only from the future we can get new things, brand new ideas, breakthrough technologies. Only this unpredictable future is our source of getting better life and all we need for it is work hard, solve current problems, think positively and go forward. 
Johan Norberg, author and documentary filmmaker, noticed that people in each era thought that there is a better historical period, environment instead of thinking about progress which makes sense at that moment. He is sure people supposed to stop be terrifying about tragedies happening so often nowadays, because it always were. We just do not thinking about history and statistics, because we didn’t see it or feel it. We care about today and scary about it, but it is wrong. Johan Norberg also mentioned that experience from other generations can make sense. I am pretty sure in each country and in Russia especially people from past generations can say that it is better now. Johan Norberg mentioned an interesting point that we do notice all problems, but it is not a source of increasing pessimism inside, it is a way to solve it and make everything better because of it. Even when somebody feel pessimistic about something, for instance, as Johan Norberg think about politics, there is an very exiting idea that it is still and always will be our option to exchange experience, explore the world, create new things, communicate and feel a part of people, who actually create the future. I agree that a lot of things will continue go wrong, because of people, who can make mistakes or unmanaged and uncontrolled process, which can take part of every era, but we don’t need to focus on bad and distractive thoughts and  feelings. It is a not the way of progress.  
David Runciman, Professor of Politics at Cambridge University, do not agree that our historical process is phased progress. It is more about «up and down» process depends on a lot of economic, political, environmental issues and every period is unique, it’s not worth or better, it might unpredictable. That’s why people cannot be optimists. In my opinion it may be true because most of people don’t feel themselves comfortable in undefined state. We can’t be confident about future because a lot of things do not even depend on our decisions or opinions. And also we can’t take all goods and achievements for granted; it is all hardworking process in which we are every single day. David Runciman noticed that there are a lot of consequences from previous mistakes and bad experience. And I also agree with that, sometimes it seems more like a hard lesson then a view to a bright future. And still with all these new opportunities and technologies we take a lot of risks because of undefined state. There is another view of all these progress it can be a cause of disasters and tragedies. In his mind we do not always make great stuff from innovations, it might lead to a catastrophe because more comprehensive and difficult technology – more unpredictable consequences. 
Scientists agree that genetically people are tending to be more pessimists then optimists.  As Johan Norberg said we are pretty obsessed when things go wrong, because we work hard, we try to make our lifes better and we expect it to happen. We are pessimists by nature, but it’s up to us to correct it and look at the bright side of life. We are not quite open for new opportunities, people or other stuff; we don’t trust it by nature, but it is not a progressive way to be scary of everything. I truly believe future in our hands and we can do whatever it takes to make it as good as we can imagine. 
I personally feel more confident with an optimistic position. I truly believe I can do more, work more efficient with a positive view on things. Fear is a thing to distract all good beginnings and ideas. We need to be neat and think twice or thrice before making next decision. And it is the only way to make progress and create the future. Let’s not be scary about things which are not even happen. Nowadays with all our potential and technologies we can solve every problem and can make sense for the next generations.
