All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were like before.
Nowadays there are a lot of debates about declining of languages in our current practice. Is the English (Russian, German, French…) language really going to the dogs?
On the one hand, the rules of English are continually broken: the language suffers and those who care suffer too. 
One of the most famous fighter against terrible changes of languages is George Orwell. His 1946 essay “Politics and the English Language” said that much political language, by means of circumlocution and euphemism and other doctorings, was “designed to make lies sound truthful and murder respectable.” To Orwell, our very lives depended on linguistic clarity.
When we substitute “problems” with “issues”, we talk about challenges and not about difficulties, when we don’t use “hardworking” anymore, we are unclear. Writer and BBC Radio presenter John Humprys says, that we must beware of this game politicians play.
As John Humprys also says, people who support motion about declining of English (or any other language) are not necessary pedants. Language is created for communication and grammar is a tool to communicate. You can’t communicate without understanding of basic rules. But if you know the rules, you know how make the language work.
On the other hand, appearing of new words doesn’t mean that the language is sick, it means language is dynamic. It’s a life that language is living. 
Language is about the way human societies communicate. We have varieties of language usage that help us to talk about our ideas and feelings more clear. Sometimes when we use emoji or “horrible new jargon” we can communicate even more effectively, than when we follow all the rules. 
As writer and columnist of The Times Oliver Kamm says, nowadays people still study foreign languages according to 19th-century grammatical rules. They suffer from grammar lessons but this rules don’t actually help them to communicate. In a world changed by immigration, and intolerant of the idea of an élite, many people felt that prescriptive style manuals were exclusionary, even cruel. We need conventions of language usage, but not old-fashioned rules.
Traditionalists may argue that digital technology has a pernicious effect on language, but in fact children who text a lot have higher rates of literacy.
Many linguists tell that the rules are relative: they express the rule-makers’ social class, education, and values. We need an opportunity to change the rules if we see that they don’t work or if they don’t really help us to communicate.
Social structure has changed radically in the past half century. Today we are freer, more tolerant, more polyglot. Life’s changing and languages have to change too, and contemporary linguistic usage is a very interesting field to research.
Of course, there are some arguments that prove, that when the rules are broken, the language is put on jeopardy. But there are arguments that prove that when languages change it doesn’t mean they are in decline, and these arguments are more convincing. Language is a river that flow through many tributaries we must pay attention to.
