All languages change over time in varied ways and there are many reasons for this. Still, there are those who think that is regrettable. For others the fact that language is always changing doesn’t mean it’s getting worse, they rather argue that it’s getting different. In this essay we would like to consider some arguments for and against the inevitable process of languages changing. 
Firstly, one of the main obvious reasons is globalization and movement of people across the globe, which is steadily increasing in today’s world. There are several advantages and disadvantages of it, but we are going to analyze this process from the positive view. Thus, any language always involves new words, expressions and intonations from other languages and cultures. Due to this fact it helps people from different continents, backgrounds, communities and so on better understand each other, and better integrate in other’s life view. This is particularly essential today, in the existence of global economic social and cultural environment. In this particular case, any changes that happen with a language in its lexical phonetic and other ways are perceived as advantages, which contribute to the modern life. 
On the opposite side any language is linked with the culture identity and from this notion in order to save our identity we need to save our language. Thus, all the language changes which occur in the context of globalization are perceived as something which kills the originality and roots of the culture or the nation. As a result new “international” vocabulary replaces the culture’s native vocabulary, which at least causes different misunderstandings between generations.
Also some argue that older forms of language are more elegant and clear, than are the modern ones. Still, there are some potential to discuss this notion. On the one hand, that is true especially when people are trying to replace with no reason some words from the native vocabulary with so called loan-words (or foreign words) or use some more “up-to-date” words like “issues” or “challenges” instead of “problems”. If the meanings of these words were different that would worth it, but in some cases that just lead again to forgetting the native vocabulary. 
On the other hand, language is about the way human societies communicate. Basically that means that new technologies, new experiences and products, as well as the new rhythm of life, just require new words and constructions. 
In conclusion, we would like to say, that generally any language is a tool of people’s communication. Modern communication is the reflection of intercultural influences, computer mediated way of interaction and so on. Thus, there are no “good” or “bad” consequences, the changes in languages should be perceived as the givenness of things. 
