All languages nowadays are becoming inferior to what they were like before.
Having been extremely conservative about the correct usage of the Russian language for my whole life, I have suddenly found myself to be at the other part of the barricade after graduating from baccalaureate and starting to work. 
As a part of the background I need to confess that my mother is the Russian language teacher and I have always struggled to remember every exception that Russian language had with regard to emphasises and other complex rules of grammar and orthography. This is the reason why I have always noticed the mistakes (even minor ones) the other (obviously happier) people make while speaking the Russian language.
However, I would never admit that the Russian language as well as any other language in this world is becoming worse. I vote strongly against the motion (and I hope my mother will never find out that I do).
First of all, this is clear from the motion that languages have been spoiled through years and what we see now is the result of the years of aggravation and decline in people's language accuracy which finally resulted in the poor current state of the language. This argument lacks any persuasive ground since we simply do not have enough information to make any comparisons. Nobody from those who support the motion ever heard how the people of ancient or medieval ages had spoke to each other. I hope the supporters do not think that during these good old days people used the Shakespeare's language to ask the route home or to order the food at the restaurant. So it would be wrong to say that there is some sad tendency and language indeed is becoming worse. 
Secondly, as the first speaker rightfully pointed out, language is the tool, it helps us in our everyday life to resolve the problems (or better to say issues), to find friends and to fall in love. It also helps sharing the ideas which in the ends makes the world as good as it has never been with astonishing development of technologies. We use language to communicate and to create the unite space where people of all nations understand each other. The expansion of English language itself  has shown that millions of people from all over the world are now able to communicate using very simple grammar constructions. It means that through simplicity and due to simplicity we achieved the unity that never existed before. Who would argue that the language went to dogs then?
It is hard to disagree (just as third speaker said) that we love when the language is respected and we buy books to see the best example of such respect. However, it would be wrong to say that the language is actually disrespected in other fields of our life. Working as a lawyer I may confirm that every time I file the document to court I check every letter I wrote and read twice every sentence I constructed to make sure that I was 100% clear about what I was going to prove to judge. I never use metaphors and complicated constructions because my goal is not to show how well-educated I am and how enriched my language really is. My goal is to make my point and to deliver the message. I strongly believe that this is what people of all the professions do: there is nothing better than clarity and language is only then truly beautiful when it is simple and clear.
My point of view, however, is not that pragmatic as it may seem. I am indeed a big literature lover and personally, just as the supporters of the motion, I enjoy this aesthetical feeling while reading the well-written books regardless when they were written: now or two centuries ago. It only proves my point: there are still so many talented authors now and we can be sure that our language (and all other languages) will be preserved. As long as we read books and write essays, there is no any threat that we will lose our language and its beauty. There are indeed the whole categories of professions that contribute to enrichment of our language on the daily basis: university and school professors, writers, linguists, journalists and many others. It is safe to say that we may sleep peacefully knowing that people like my mother would correct us when we say it in a wrong way. So the threat to languages is obviously exaggerated.
Finally, (it would be a crime for a lawyer not to make this point) as the second speaker rightfully pointed out the grammar is no more than the set of rules, simply a convention that all human beings made to understand each other and all these complicated rules does not have any logic. I can entrust you that it is extremely hard to terminate the convention like this. It actually would mean to declare the war or revolution because as you know, pacta sunt servanda . The truth is no one is going to do so because we love the language so much because it gives us an opportunity to be closer to each other and to make the world a better place.
My very final point is that the answer to the motion depends on how really you treat the language: as a static piece of art that we need to preserve or as the dynamic and strong tool that helps us be persuasive, unambiguous, clear an innovative. 
Breaking the conventional language rules never hurt someone but rather gave as the freedom of expression and the freedom to be both uninterested and disinterested in what the supporters of the motion says. 
