There is more cause for pessimism than for optimism about the future of the world nowadays
    The motion under discussion is extremely debatable, because it covers two fundamentally opposing views. Many people tend to think about the future in negative way and they provide some strong arguments in order to support their opinion. However, I would like to develop my points against the motion and I will try to explain why pessimism may be exaggerated and overvalued concerning the future perspectives in the modern world. 
   Firstly, there is a lot of evidence that during the whole history of humanity we observe the overall positive trend in its development. Therefore, it is reasonable to consider that this trend will hold in the future. As one of the speakers, Johan Norberg, pointed out during the debate ‘The new optimism’ held by Intelligence squared: ‘There was no better era than now and there are some hopes and expectations that humanity is only getting better’. We can strongly agree with this claim, because obviously we no longer live in a barbarous society nowadays. The humanity is constantly heading to progress and better leaving and we all should be aware of these improvements. Enhancing national and global security lower down the digits of criminal activities in many countries. The progress over the past centuries in educational, social, governmental and other important parts of society has only improved the quality of life. We should also recall the improvements in health and longevity, the available entertainment activities, the new opportunities to travel that we blithely take for granted. In the ‘Progress or Pessimism: How Should We Think About the Future?’ written by Carter Phipps is stated the following: ‘we simply do not appreciate how good things are in comparison to how they have been historically’. It’s should be clear that life is better today for the majority of people than at any previous time in history. Moreover, the society’s intentions still stay optimistic despite the obstacles on the way to the better world, so the concerns should be taken into account, but not exaggerated. 
   Secondly, some people say that too positive view can blind us to the real threats of the modern world, for instance, the speaker for the motion, David Runciman, stated the possible violation of our freedoms and dangerous threats and decline of democracy and politics. Nevertheless, I would argue that pessimism is dangerous because of its destructive power and it always has been so, that is why we should always thing positive even while struggling the obstacles and challenges. I absolutely support the idea of Johan Norberg, the speaker against the motion, that it is fear which we should be afraid of. The emotions of fear, nostalgia and negative psychological attitude concerning the future only obstruct and slow down creative activity and progress. It is important that this idea is not new, it was actual in the older times and stays relevant nowadays. One can argue, that in the modern society some new causes and reasons have appeared. For instance, the danger of cyber terroristic attacks, new military revolutions like we observed in Egypt and Syria in 2011, the threat of the third world war and nuclear explosions. There is no doubt, we have a lot of problems up-to-date, including those, which turned to be relevant only in the nearest past and present
   Thirdly, there is no reason to think the innovations and humankind heritage in different fields of life is going to slow down or collapse. This point was made by Matt Ridley and seems reasonable, because the human kind has achieved so many things and is not going to run out of ideas. It can be explained by the fact that people are getting smarter, more progressive and humane. Also, one of the main concerns of the speakers were about politics. However, as Matt Ridley has said, politically everything in the world what could go wrong has already went wrong. Nevertheless, we have not seen such kind of progress as we do observe know. I also suppose that the ‘wild optimism of innovations’, mentioned by David Runciman, is premature. In fact, the society still has many things to achieve and accomplish in science and technology. Also, people do control their own inventions as their creators and they are able to take the necessary measure for safety. 
   In conclusion, I would like to state myself against the motion. Taking into account the discussion and arguments above, we should end up with the idea that optimism concerning our future is our way out for the better future. The concerns, critical thinking and pessimism are normal and even useful for society and can be used as premises for problem solving and avoiding the most dangerous threats. However, the pessimism was relevant during the whole history of the humankind, but not only nowadays. In addition, the growth in number of causes for negative views is not evident and can be doubted by the examples of terrible disasters that humankind successfully endured.
