Task 1.
The graph represents information about international tourist arrivals during 15-years period from 1990 to 2005.
We can notice that people from North America, Central and Eastern Europe, South-East Asia, Sub-Saharan Africa, South America travelled a lot.In 1990 the number of people from North America was 70 million, whereas the number people from Sub-Saharan Africa was nearly 10 million.
It can perhaps be explained by the lowest level of income of Sub-Saharan Africans. Moreover, the number of tourists from North America reached a peak in 2000 year.
It was 90 million people. By the way, we can notice that in 2005 the number of South Americans was nearly 20 million. It was the minimum point.
Moreover, the figure shows that the number of tourists from Central and Eastern Europe increased rapidly.
In 2005 the number increased nearly in three times. It can be explaned perhaps by developing tendency of tourism in Europe.
Overall, we can see that North Americans and Central and Eastern Europens have high quality of tourists. Consequently, they develop the tourism.

Task 2.
Nowadays a lot of people are sure that having enjoyable job is more important, than earning a huge sum of money.
But others do not think so. They consider that a hight salary can improve their's life. Let us see who is right.
To begin with, people should choose that job, which they can put their heart on it.
Firstly, if you work in dumpty office, but you enjoy your work, you can not notice the time.
Moreover, you can arrive home with good mood. For instanse, my friend is a banker and she spends all the time with banknotes and paper documnents. I think it is rather monotoneus work, but she admires it. Secondly, a good job can lead to strong raltionship with other workers. You can work like a team or a family. This point is rather a significant thing in your favourite job.
However, some people are sure that earning good money is the most important thing in their's life. If a man or a woman has stable high salary, he or she can buy what ever he or she wants. But this man or woman can not buy a fantastic life, because not everything correlates with money.
To sum up, I would like to stress that having enjoyable job is more important than having a high salary.
