(Task 1) In modern society spend plenty of money on petrol. The graph shows how much people in two different countries spend on it. So, drivers in the United States Of America spend approximately 3 per cent of their income on petrol on the average. While the poorest spend more than 5 per cent of income, the richest spend only 2,5 per cent. Probably this is so because rich people in America use mostly taxi, as they have enough money for it. And, of course, they do not have to pay for patrol using taxi. As for drivers in the United Kingdom, the part of income they spend on petrol depends on their position in society. Therefor poor people spend only 0,5 per cent of income on car’s engine, while rich people spend 4 per cent. This fact is quite clear, as the poor just cannot afford expensive petrol. To sum up, statistics shows that poor people in the USA spend more money on petrol compared to people in the UK. Speaking about rich people, they spend about 3,5 per cent of income on petrol both in the USA and the UK. People of middle income spend about 4 per cent of their income in both countries.

(Task 2) Nowadays, we cannot imagine our life without the Internet. It is the main source of information for many people. But is it the best place to find what you need? Some people are sure that the Internet is the best human invention. It helps them to discover new things, to broaden their minds and even to relax. Firstly, it is common knowledge that you can find everything you want on the Internet. Secondly, it gives you an opportunity to do different brain exercises, to buy something without leaving a house, to make new friends online though different social networks, and what not. Besides, the Internet is one of the best sources of entertainment, as people can play many different games with the help of it. However, others consider this invention to be a waste of time. They think that the Internet is not the source on which you can rely. The information that it provides can be wrong. For instance, almost everybody can correct the articles on the Wikipedia and add some fiction. These people prefer using book when they need to learn something. Moreover, according to them, the Internet can be addictive. All these computer games have a bad influence on young people. They make children lazy and can lead to obesity and some other horrible diseases. Young people start to move less, speak less and even think less. The Internet “observes” them. As for me, I think that the Internet helps us save time and provides us with useful information. We just need to find the right way to use it. I am sure that some people become addictive not because of the Interne, but because of their personal qualities and their character. Taking into consideration all mentioned above, I would like to say that we could hardly imagine life without the Internet nowadays. And this fact do not make the Internet our enemy. I just think that people should wisely as the rest of human inventions.


 
