It is generally believed that the Internet gives us many opportunities of communication or reading books. However, some people say that it is just a waste of time. Which of these opinions is true?
I strongly believe that the Internet is useful, and other means of communication are becoming a part of the past. They are not so modern or convienient. The global networking is neccessary in different occasions. First of all, many of our friends use social nets. Often it is the only way to communicate with them and see new photos, read their posts and comments. Secondly, all information is immediately downloaded on websites, forums and chats: the Internet is the first place where people go to write about world problems and a situation in their countries. Thirdly, the Internet is the best way for education. Chats with native speakers improve our knowledge of foreign languages, special sites help us record our goals and track our progress in a graph. The last advantage, but the most important for me personally, is books. You can never buy all books for home, libraries are not so convinient and sometimes do not have a special range of editions or publications. In this case, the Internet has become the excellent source of educational information.
On the other hand, many people (especially adults) have another opinion. They say that electronic online games destroy young minds. Furthermore, the information which you are looking for you can never find at once because of spam and advertisment, mistakes in titles of articles, categories, extra-tegs of themes that are not presented in post. Moreover, anonyms on websites can play tricks with you, because there is no police at the Internet. The world law does not have any power there.
All argument of different points of view are of the great importance. But I consider it is our duty to assess what we write in the Internet and what we read there. Tastes differ, I still believe that young people and especially students cannot live without the Internet, it has become the ordinary part of our daily routine.
