Psychologically speaking, it is a common knowledge, that children's and grown-ups' social patterns and characteristics differ in many ways. This essay aims at discussing the most significant changes of personal behaviour in a period of growing up. Also this essay will assess, whether these changes are beneficial or not.
It is estimated, that there are several noticeable differences between adults and teenagers. First of all, in most case after becoming an adult person tends to show less emotions and be more closed to other people and reserved, children being more enthusiastic, emotional and sensitive. That is why, for example, adults are less prone to making friends than in their childhood. Other markable change is that older peope are more reliable and they are able to take responsibility for their decisions comparing with children, who are even maybe not accquinted with the notion of the world "responsibility". Moreover, while person is becoming an adult, his or her self-confidence increases. Because at this point of life people start to acknowledge the fact that they can make reasonable decisions and choices on their on. And it also reflects in a social behaviour.
So does the process of growing up have a positive influence on one's behaviour or is there mainly disadvantages? When it comes to talking about tendency to make close bonds, it seems, that adults lose an enourmous part of their ability to interact with others. However, it is obvious, that increasing responsibilty and growing self-confidence has a positive impact on one's life. Many people suppose that it is even impossible to live without these skills. For instance, if person is not reliable, his or her behaviour will be percieved as childish and nobody will want to work or be in relationships with this kind of person.
Overall, the process of growing up is inevitable and it involves a lot of changes in human mind and behaviour. For some reasons becoming an adult might be sad, for instance, due to the fact, that people bacome more reserved. Having said that, I cannot but assume that growing up consists mostly of beneficial changes in personal behaviour, such as learning how to be responsible and relyable. 
