The data given reveals information on the number of people from all over the world arriving in different locations around the planet throughout the years of 1990 and 2005.

Just by a quick look at the linegraph it is possible to state that the major pattern of rising of the figures has been held throughout the period given. But there is also a huge gap between the most frequently visited part of the world and the part of the world with the with the lowest number of visitors. The former is North America with its level being kept 70 millions of visitors and above all the way while the latter - South America - ended up with the number of about 15 millions visitors in the year of 2005. Interestingly how only these two locations showed negative results overall with America's only decrease by approximantly 2 millions during the last 5 years and the weakest South America's rise pattern gaining barely more than 5 millions of visitors overall.The other locations listed managed to fill the gap between the highest and the lowest points.
Such are the Sub-Saharan Africa being the only location to overtake another participant which was South America gaining a bit more than 20 millions starting from the lowest point of nearly 5 millions.
South-East Asia showed the most moderate growth by the end of the period appearing right at the median level showing nearly 50 millions. And the last one location - Central and Eastern Europe - revealed the most remarkable growth climbing from the level of 30 millions of visitors up to the 85 millions which was definitely the strongest jump among the participants.

Summing all up, we can conclude that all the locations except North America showed overall increase of the amount of visitors yet North America still remained the most popular location to visit as it would be at the beginning of the period. Another commonly spread tendency appeared to be starting up and ending up at the same popularity chart positions by the end of the period despite the overall growths of different intensity. 
The only exclusion for this tendency was South America losing its chart postion and ending up the least popular location to visit by the end of the period given. 
