A choice of career and further its maintaining undoubtedly is one of the most important acts in our lives. Obviously it is a common desire to earn ones living by doing beloved things. But the real situation appears to be far less dreamy and thus providing a never-ending discussion whether it is more important to enjoy the job or to make a huge profit regards to dreams.

Apparently, there are fierce supporters for both of the points of view introduced above. And there will always be ones complaining about their career and earnings and the ones never-minding their bussiness since it gives enough money to live. As for me, the answer for the question given depends deeply on mentality. It is in our heads to enjoy each moment of life. Of course it is much of a poetry to claim like this but I really believe that the key for celebrating life floats in our minds.

As it was mentioned before, some people state that the finacial issue is the leading one when speaking about job. For sure, the claim is based on reality which, unfortunately, shows highly stable tendency of being able to achieve everything with the help of money. Another stomping argument goes for the quality of life. Absolutely true is that the more you have - the more you can afford and it's impossible to maintain ones life and especially family life just by dreams and enlightened hopes. So, basically, we are to admit that nowadays it is impossible to live in a comfort way without earning enough money and thus a salary issue is no doubts relevant.

Of course dealing with real life is important but I would to join dreamy rebel stating that it is way more crucial to enjoy every moment. While highly paid job often needs complete dedication,few time is left to feed the soul. And even if there is some time left there are no inner power left. Completely opposite feature goes for the dream jobs. Each moment of doing things one is passionate to is a pure treasure for such kind of people. Furthermore, when a mind is inspired each moment it leads to the total harmony when even kind of hands-on and financial difficulties could be successsfully maintained. 

Speaking about these two different polarities, another exciting example comes to mind. It represents the job of dream the same time which provides with enormous profit. And often these kind of facilities are nothing but pure dreams requiring nothing but joy to perform, not struggle at all. At this point tons of people go mad when discovering, for example, how much a football player earns or another artist. But, what really makes me curious, whether such kind of complaining people ever wondered how hard this commonwealth was achieved. Speaking from the inside, while being a professional football player for 13 years, I know that it is not an "easy ride" at all - it is one kind of a never-ending work, labour, dedication and patience.
 
Summing all up, I'd like to say that I really tend to appreciate people finding enjoyable job more important than one with a high salary. But the reality tends to state opposite and yet it is very hard and thorny path to achieve this kind of dream. And as a final thought I'd like to quote one beautiful piece: "Starve the ego, feed the soul." 
