It is argueable question whether it is more relevant to have your dream job or to be well-paid and have a great career path. This essay aims at discussing which of these ideas is more sensible and sagatious.
On the one hand, a lot of people suppose, that choosing your job according to an amount of earning money is more relevant than choosing according to your personal sphere of interest. Firstly, this opinion seems reasonable because of the fact, that perconal preferences may change as time paths. For example, it might become very frusstrating if one decided to work in the sphere of the environment for the idea of saving planet and denied some well-paid job offer in the spehere of economics, and then a few years after he or she became interested in economis, this person will regret the earlier decision. Moreover, working for the idea may become very depressing experience if a person is hardly making ends meet. Even if he or she had always a hankering for having a job in this particular field, it will be hard to overcome daily problems with money.
On the other hand, many people strongly believe, that it is essential to struggle to get your dream job. It is obvious, that a person, who has found his or her vocation and achieved a goal of getting this job, has also found a harmony in life. Also having a dream job is percieved as a very rewarding experience. Due to the fact that you are very motivated to cope with all problems during your work you will never feel depressed, even if you earn less money than you could. Furthermore, it is estimated, that people who have chosen their profession according to their own wills are even more successful in their career. For instance, while you have such job you will never found yourself snowed down with work or feeling stressed because of the annoying or irrational boss. That is why, you become motiveted and less inclined to procrastinate, and as a result your efficiency and success increase.
When both sides of the arguement are looked at, I would like to emphasize the fact, although having the job in a field of personal interests is nearly vital, it is also relevant in life to strike the balance between your wills and your financial needs. 
