Writing 1.
	There is given a graph showing how many international tourists visit different 
parts of the world since 1990 till 2005.
	The most popular place to visit in all these years is North America. In 1990 more
than 70 millions of tourists visited this region. Then this level grows up to more than 90
millions in 2000 and slightly falls to around 90 in 2005. The number of tourists in Central
and Eastern Europe rises most dramatically: from a little more than 30 millions to around
90 millions in 2005. So, in 2005, this level gets close to the level of Noth America.The
amount of people visited South-East Asia grows from around 20 millions in 1990 up to 50
millions in 2005. The number of Sub-Saharan Africa and South America visitors is less than
10 millions in 1990 and it grows up to slightly more than 20 millions for Sub-Saharan Africa
and less than 20 millions for South America.
	In the end, it seems important to notice that in general all of the five given
levels grow between 1990 and 2005. Despite this fact, since 2000 until 2005, the number of
people visited North America slightly falls. Nevertheless, it remains the highest even in
2005.

Writing 2.
	Some people believe that one had better do a pleasant job rather than try to
get a better salary. Others, however, disagree.
	I think, that it is more important to have a job that you like than to find a job
with a good salary even if it does not please you. There are a few reasons for such an
opinion.
	Firstly, a job usually takes a lot of your time. So, if you spend a large part of
it hating your job, the other part (when you spend the money you have got) will turn out
to be very short to have a rest from from work.
	Moreover, not enjoyable work makes people very tired. If they are tired, they
are unable to do a lot of thing during their free time. All in all, this job starts to
be the main part of their lives. If this job is unpleasant, it turns out to be a
serious problem.160
	Also, some jobs can be unpleasant for some people because of particular
reasons. For example, a job can seem to be useless for some people. Understanding of
this fact, people who think this way can get depressed despite big salaries.
	On the other hand, some men disagree with such an opinion. There are reasons why.
	For example, some people have big families and they have to gain money to support
it. Thus, it seems that they have to find jobs with high salaries ignoring their own
opinions about it.
	Nevertheless, I disagree with this opinion. I think, that if one does a job
that he or she finds enjoyable, he or she will do it very carefully, and, thus, he or she
will be raised and will get more money.
	In the end, I would like to say that it is better to find a pleasant job rather
than a job with a good salary because, as I think, it is a key to the happy living.


