Task 1.
This diagram depicts the correspondence between the level of wealth (poor, middle-income, rich) and the percentage which is spent on petrol by people from the UK and the US.
First of all, one of the main trends of the graph is that in the US amongst the poorest and middle-income people the percentage is higher than in the UK. On the contrary, amongst the richest people the percentage is lower comparing to the UK. Furthermore, lines of the graph intersect at a point of about 4%, which is on the verge between middle-income people and the richest people. Moreover, in the UK the percentage of money spent on petrol amongst poor and middle-income people grows. However, amongst the richest people it fluctuates between 3% and 4% and then it starts to plummet. Also it is noticeable that the highest percent for the people from the US is 5.2%.
Overall, both percentages show a slight increase among the poorest people and a hardly noticeable decrease among the richest people.
Task 2.
Nowadays there is an arguable question whether it is convenient to use the Internet to search for information or not. Some people suppose that the Internet is the most trustworthy source of information. At the same time others strongly disagree with this point of view. So which of these opinions seems more sensible and wise?
On the one hand, the Internet is very useful when it comes to searching for something. It is capable of consisting almost all existing information in the world. It is estimated that everyday thousands or even more new websites appear.  The other evidence for convenience of the Internet is that it is very fat in use and the most easiest to approach amongst other sources of information. For instance, it is easy to search for some information immediately due to the fact that nowadays nearly everyone has mobile phones, laptops or computers with a permanent Internet access.
On the other hand, although the Internet seems very convenient, fast and useful there is more to it than meets the eye. It is widely known that the Internet is not reliable enough. And that is why we can not use it in every case of searching for something. First of all, information there is written by ordinary people and nobody corrects it. Thus, there are plenty of mistakes. Secondly, deliberately false information can be found on the Internet. For example, somebody might set wrong information on the Internet as a joke. Finally, it is often very hard to find a suitable for your aims source of information. For instance, one may want to search for some special sort of cheese to buy it and instead of shops’ websites he or she receives an academic notion of type of this cheese and some other irrelevant information.
When the both sides of the argument are looked at, the second opinion seems to me more reasonable. Unreliable and/or irrelevant information on the Internet is a problem, which everyone has faced. So it is important to check information before trust it and be very careful and attentive while searching for something on the Internet. Also I would like to emphasize the fact that despite the Internet is perfect invention for communication, it not as good at collecting only valid and relevant information.
