Nowadays people have to deal with a very urgent problem which is far not always easy to be soluted. The dilemma is whether to choose a profession you love
and can devote the whole life to with pleasure or to have a job that is garanteed to bring you a lot of money. This is a vital question to be discussed.

On the one hand, earning enough or more than enough money for living leads to a beautiful life with no reasons to worry about what to leave for you children.
So, if you are sure that a huge amount of money is not the most important thing for you, try to think about your future family you will have to provide for and this
will give you a motivation to do any kind of well-paid job no matter how much you like it. Futhermore, having earned a fortune for your happy life by a hateful but
prestigios work, you can finally make your dream come true by doing something you really love just for pleasure, just as a hobby. For example, I have heard about
an extremely worthy businessman who spent the last days of his life by painting sunsets at the seaside.

But on the other hand, we only live once and wasting days of our lives on a dull but prestigious job might seem to be a huge mistake. Far not everyone can easily bear
doing what you don't like just for earning money. This can lead to a depression and feeling that you life is senseless. Imagine that you will die in a week - would you
continue avoiding your dream? Moreover, doing what you love far not always excludes the possibility to earn enough! Being a kind of my role model, my cousin devoted
her life to teaching Spanish, the language of her passion, and now she owns a huge branch of language schools across the globe!

All in all, opinions always differ and we should repect each other's choice. But personally I believe that enjoing your life and job you're doing cannot compare with
any amount of money. A couple of years ago I refused studying on a very prestigious business faculty and chose my dream job, no matter how much money it will bring me.
