The modern world provides us with issures we didn't used to face before.
Nowadays, when people have more opportunities to make a choise of their future career, many of them prefer to choose that one that brings a lot of money because big salary results in better life. But others believe that it is important to get pleasure from your job rather than to make a profit. The essay examines both aspects of this problem.

The discussion I want to start with the observation of the first point of view. For them job is concerned only as the way to make a living and they have rational reasons for this. Firstly, it is a certainly clear that without money we cannot even survive in this world, and only money are able to provide us with our everyday feature. Money are responsible for our enjoyable lives and thus big salary ensures people's happiness. The further aspect that explains the tendency of making money that i would consider is changed priorities in the modern world. The driving force behind the trend is capitalistic relationshpips between people in order to which everyone pursues aims to be as rich and successful as others are.

However, there is an another point of view. In spite of these factors that make people choose more profitable job, there is a factor of pleausure. Others belive that it is much more important because a job is not merely a way to earn, but the way to develop yourself as a person. When you choose an interesring and satisfactory job, you feel happy not only when you spend your money on your recreational leisure time. Furthermore, profitable job is exhausting and provides people not only with income but with diseases and stress.
And that is why many people believe, that this kind of job does not appropriate for them, and prefer to earn less, but feel better.

Personally, I am of the second opinion, because I believe that our live is short enough to spend it on earning, and it is important to live for yourself, not for society and for respect from it.
