Money is our source for comfortable life.
I think, nobody can argue this statement.
Many people once had a dilemma: getting an interesting job, but having a low salary, or being well-paid for doing boring things.
Maybe I too centralize money, but in my point of view, the main aim of job concerns making our life better by earning.
The most interesting job can't offer a comfortable flat, fresh food, practical medical care.
Choosing between these points of safe and not extreme life and the job of my dreams, personally, I would prefer the first.
Just because having a comfortable place to live and delicious food to eat every day is number one priority, things, that we can't live without.
Living in poorness has much more disadvantages than boring job. 
This list of minuses includes problems with health because of inability of buying necessary medicaments, lack of variants, or even absence, of entertainment for relaxing, cheep and unhealthy food in a fridge and ect.
As I think, to avoid such big problems is much more important than having a good time five times a week out of home.
Of course, there is an opposite opinion. 
For someone his or her attitude to the job is the most important thing.
These people prefer enjoying everything they doing, the job is not an exception.
Despite our work, we must many things we don't really like, for example, talking with bad people, feeling nerves because the crime rate.
Boring and hateful job stays no place for joy in our life.
When we a working with happiness and love, the process becomes easier and faster and the result - better.
It's very hard to argue this statement, nevertheless I have to.
Our good attitude to the job doesn't feed the family, doesn't bring us to another country for a holiday.
My opinion is that there are things that are worth doing, even we don't want.
Once you force yourself doing not attractive and boring things, and the result would be high salary and luxurious life.
In conclusion, I have to say, that choice of job is very personal and hard.
Each person has to follow his or her number one priority during the whole life, either it is joy or money.
If he or she is happy with that very choice, it means, that it was the right way.
