There is no doubt that social behavior of people in their childhood differs a lot from that in their adulthood. However, not all of these changes can be considered good for them.  So what happens to us when we grow up and is there anything bad about it?
To begin with, there are several obvious patterns of behavior change which are definitely helpful for integrating into society. Firstly, a person gradually becomes more independent when they become adults. As a person starts to spend more time without their family, they learn how to make serious decisions without consulting anyone. It is undoubtedly an extremely important quality for those who intends to live on their own – that is exactly what adults do, at least, for a certain period of time.  Secondly, all the adults form a variety of models of communication depending on different social environment. It prevents the consequence of saying something inappropriate in public in order for one to reach success in many different fields by separating formal communication from informal.
On the other hand, the same characteristic of a person can lead to not too pleasant consequences for one’s character. By becoming used to behave themselves differently among different people can result in losing one’s personal manner of communication and even to partly losing their identity. Some even start to suffer from difficulties to express themselves and say what they mean instead of what they are wanted to say. Moreover, adult communication may be influenced by way more stereotypes then children’s. Some things, like wearing clothes which are too bright, being too loud or even being of a different race are being judged by adults nut not by children. This point can be described by a book “A boy in a striped pajamas”, which tells about a friendship of a child of Nazi officer with a Jewish child. Unlike adults, the boy does not understand why these people have to be killed, while his parents have no proper words to explain. 
All in all, I believe that  the changes in social behavior which occur when becoming an adult are necessary to live your life on your own. However, it is important not to lose your identity and not to be fooled by the opinion of other people.
