As a child grows up, he or she faces many social problems during this period. The main one is social behavior changes. They are necessary to adapt to the world where we live. I strongly believe that these changes are good enough and they are absolutely necessary for a real life. Now I am going to discuss main changes in children’s behaviour and differences between children and adults and explain my opinion.
To begin with, adults have to be responsible for all things that happen in their lives. When a person has a child, he or she has to take care of a child and be responsible for all the tricks he or she does. But some decisions in life must be taken by a child himself or herself, because they define the future of this child. For me this stage is critical and it causes all changes in child’s behaviour. 
 Some people say that children have imagination, they believe in mystery and fairy-tales. They are really easy-going and interested in everything, because there is no place in this heart for boring things like work, timetable and so on. In my opinion, this is just one side of the coin. While growing up, a child should become more confident, serious and have possibilities to live without parents. In other words, coming-of-age is not about boring things, it is just about your own way in life and your own decisions. There is no doubt that any person faces to problems in life. If you are an outstanding personality, you can go out a trouble. This feature develops you and in the future you will be able to help somebody. This is a feature which defines any grown-up person.
 Let’s talk about boring things in life of adults! In my opinion, many musicians or artists do not think that they have less imagination or do not enjoy simple things in life like the first green leaves in spring.  Narrow views are not necessary attributes of adults. You as a child should often follow strict rules. When you are grown up, you can choose your own strategy in life because your behaviour and attitude to your life are serious enough. So, this is the main difference between children and adults. It helps open new horizons and adds even more sense to your life.
