
The choice between well-payed, but exausting (not only physically) job and
enjoyable and interesting work is a very popular topic of discussion. Some people 
want their job only to bring them enough money, as they suppose that the pleasure
should take place only during leisure time. Others want to live their job through,
experiencing joy of creating every day. As for me, I like the first point of 
approach more, as, thinking this way, it is easiaer to distinguish between different moods, needed for work and for spare time activities accordingly.
First of all, nobody is able to be always cheered up and happy, even having the job of the dream. Everybody has bad days, however, I believe, it should not interrupt them from their work. Some people pay too much attention to their mood, so the whole career depends on the level of their enthusiasm. This is, in my opinion, not the right way of behaviour: we always should have something to back us up, some extra-strength to overcome tough times, not quitting job only because of the lack of joy and pleasure it use to give. For example, some days I can say that I am too exausted, have no energy for study and work; but I also know, that it is temporally, and some time latter I will overcome part of these difficulties, while the other part will simply go away.
It is also well-kown, that there are no jobs without drawbacks. That is why everybody inevitably will experience not only pleasant moments during their work, no matter how much they like it. That is also a very good reason to try not to think of a job as a joyfull activity. There is always something not really good in every field of work, so being a little bit more pragmatic is a useful strategy. For instance, some people are literally keen on chemistry and biology, want to help people and cure their deseases, but an operation is still a stressfull activity for them.That would be very sad, if they quit their job only because of these emotional difficulties.
To conclude, I would like to emphasize, that in order to being able to be a good professional, a person should be pragmatic, as it is that makes them more efficient workers. Pure enthusiasm, to my point of view, cannot lead to succesfull career and productive work.
