To begin with, I would like to mention that social interaction is a very deep and complicated field. Mostly because it includes an enourmous amount of factors that should be taken into account when trying to analize it. Secondly, social behaviour strongly depends on personality and thats why it is even harder to make kind of mean standartizations. Yet, no doubts, there are crucial differences between children's social behaviour and the adults' one. 

In my opinion, the key point for performing such kind of distinguishment lies in reflecting the mentality. In other words we are to compare what things are treated as the most important throughout different life periods. And then by selecting such key features we can coclude what constituates a difference between a kid and an adult.

With much pleasure I would like to begin with reflecting a childish sight. It is a well known fact that most of the kids tend to be highly curious about the things they see and feel. Personally I think that it is a very beautiful feature most of the adults lack. Kids are always eager for learning something new thus they are wide opened for establishing new contacts, new skills, admiring new experience. And that is another feature adults tend to lose -- an adult mindset often is closely bound in routine.
All features mentioned above are of course magnificent but it is arguable to mention that the whole difference lies in them. At this point its crucial to introduce the most important feature the adults do lose. It is a simple kindness. The world these days is tough, full of anger and violence and we smothered by these and we extremely need to adopt childish kindness and carelessness.

Talking about adults' tendencies, it cannot be avoided that the most beneficial one lies in the respect for others. At this point children's behaviour varies a lot from adults'. Most of children appear to treat themselves as the most valuable objects over there thus showing complete lack of respect for other people. Mostly children are selfish and it cannot be understood by the kid during the childhood. It is crucial that this negative feature can only be figured out while mature enough. So, guess, one definitely good outcome of maturing lies in learning to respect and understand others.

To sum everything mentioned above up, I think that the most remarkable diffenreces between children's behaviour and the adults' one lies in two fields: staying kind and open-minded for any kind of new experience and learning to respect others. The former one we extremely need to adopt from children while the latter may appear crucial for kids to develop as it may become easier for them to deal with maturing.  
