There is a widely spread discussion on what is better: to have a job that you really like and not to think about how much money you earn or to have a very large salary and to work only for money. Some people really think that earning a lot of money can lead them to success. Others have another point of view. In this essay I will try to present two main opinions on this topic.
First of all, nowadays when a person try to choose the future career he or she firstly try to find the well-paid job. It means that people are sure that they will have better lives if they have a good salary. Earning a lot of money can provide your future family with everything you need. Thanks to a huge salary, you will not get by and will be able to buy not only food and clothes but also presents for you, for example, cars, houses, pets and so on. There is another reason why people put earning a lot of money at the first place when they choose a job. Every person wants people to love him or her. That's why he or she thinks that if they know about his or her good salary they will communicate with him or her with the greater pleasure. It makes sense, because nowadays, unfortunately, a friendship can base on money in some cases.
On the other hand, there is another opinion. People are sure that it does not matter how much money you earn and the most important question can arise when you look for a job: "Do you really like to be engaged in this activity?" Firstly, when you do what you want to do, the things seem to be simpler. As a result, you can do a project faster and quality of your work will be really high. It can lead you to your promotion and then you can get a better and well-paid job. Secondly, an enjoyable job can make your live better, as you won't be exhausted by the staff you will do every day. A job takes up with the biggest part of the day and people should not spend their time and forces on something that makes them unhappy at all.
All in all, I personally think that it is better to have an enjoyable job than to waste your life only on earning money. Life is full of wonderful things and your job should be one of them.
