Task 1.
The graph shows the categories of people in the USA and the UK spending on petrol and how much percent of income they spend.
Firstly, the poorest drivers in the United States of America spend nearly 5,5 percent of income on petrol, whereas the richest part in the United Kingdom spend only 4 percent of income, there are maximum points of two countries. Moreover, the line which shows the United Kingdom rapidly increased to the point of 3,7 than the line fluctuates. But after 3,7 line decreases to the point of 3,4. However, the situation in the United States of America is significantly different. The line reaches the point of 5,3 then it gets down to the point of 2,5. It means that richest part in the USA use less car than the richest part in the UK.
Overall, the poorest people in the USA spend on petrol more money than the richest in the UK.
Task 2.
Some people are sure the Internet is the best way of communication, but others think that it is not good to find information because it is not reliable.
To begin with, the internet is the fantastic thing that the human nay create. More people cannot realize nowadays life without computer and the access to the internet. Firstly, people can communicate with other people who live far from each other. Secondly, people can find nearly all information that they need. Thirdly, some teenagers can study online, if they have not any opportunity. The internet has improved the mobility. Moreover, the internet and computer technology are the reason for globalization.
However, some people prefer not to use the internet as a way of finding information. Everybody knows about unreal information in Wikipedia. Any people can change some data in this popular resource. Unfortunately, some web sites have not only not real information, but also any kind of viruses, which can destroy anybody’s computer. For example, several days ago I was trying to find a book for linguistic studies. Instead of book, I downloaded a viruses and my computer broke down.
To my mind, the internet is a good way of communication but you should not rely on it. You can find a huge number of different kind of information. People get a unique opportunity to communicate, to work, to study, even to live. If you look around you can notice that nearly all people look at their phones and chatting. That is why I think that the internet is a fantastic means of communication. 
