Task 1
The data given on the graph show the information about spendings on petrol in the United States and the United Kingdom.
Firstly, there are two curves illustrating the dependence between income of driver and his spendings on petrol. One curve describes the dependence for the US, another one shows the data for the United Kingdom.
In the United States of America the poorest drivers spend between 4 and 5 percent of income. This percentage decreases from 5 to 4 percent for middle-income drivers. And at last the figure decreases sharply for the richest people – it falls from 4 to 2 percent and has it’s minimum at 2 percent.
The line describing situation in the United Kingdom has it’s minimum in the “poorest part” of the graph – at about only half percent. Then it rises sharply and shows that middle-income drivers spend between 3 and 4 percent of income on petrol. Among the richest drivers this figure stays stable at about 4 percent.
Task 2
It is common knowledge that the Internet is a commonly used place for communication and finding information nowadays. However, some people argue that we should not use the Internet for these purposes.
Firstly, we should not forget that the Internet is the fastest way to get new information about what happens in the world. For example, no any modern student can study successfully without the Internet – we have to check our schedule every day, and we often can’t catch all the changes without the Internet. It is also important to realize that without the World Wide Web the studying process is now almost impossible – we have to find enormous amount of information for our classes. And the Internet helps us – we can find everything there.
On the other hand, we should not forget that the Internet might be an unpleasant and dangerous place for our minds, especially for childrens’. Of course, there are plenty of trash in WWW – for example, a huge amount of advertisement, and this advertisement could not be always acceptable. Thus, it is safer for children to find information they need in another place – in library, for example. In addition, it should be said that young people today are spending more and more time surfing on the Internet or just chatting – and it is not a god tendency at all. People should communicate with each other in life every day, and the Internet steals their time and attention.
To my mind, we should use Internet for communication and getting new information with caution. And we should protect us and our children from the trash and dangers from the Internet. 
