It is a well-know fact that the social behavior of children and that of adults are significantly different. Are the changes, taking place with aging, bad or good? Some people tend to think that they are surely bad. However, I cannot fully agree with that satement. 

To beging with, let us name some particular changes in social behavior, which are bound to happen with growing children. Thirstly, grown-ups are undoubtely more responsible for the actions of their own. It can be explained by the simple fact that in the childhood parents tend to take care of all the aspects of baby's life; the same idea appears in the law, which makes parents responsible for their chidren's actions untill they reach some particular age. Is an ability to be responsible for one's own actions a bad quality? I doubt it. Secondly, children definitely lack of life experience; that is why they cannot make fair judgments or make serious decisions. Again, is the ability of properly assessing other people and situations and making responsible desicions harmfull or at least useless? I do not think that any person can give an affirmative answer to that question. 

Despite given arguments being, to my mind, clear and logical, some people still have an opinion that children are better than adults in many ways, and in social behaviour as well. They suppose that any harmful thoughts or sin cannot be found in children, and grown-ups can only learn from children in order to be as innocent and kind to other people as children are. I am completely against this idea, as I think that children differ from adults only in a level of intelegency, and all the differences between both of them can be explained with that fact. Children as well can be mean to others or lie or even intentionally make harm to other people; they simply do it in a naive and not complicated way, so adults can see this and take appropriare steps to cope with that. Parents and teachers are necessary for children in order to be capable of a fully concious social interactions and acting with the regard of norms of appropriate social behaviour.

To sum up, social behaviour of children must be necesserily guided by adults, or they might grow up as irresponsible cruel creatures incapable of any social interractions which are not profitable for them. That is why all the changes which differentiate children's social behaviour from that of adults are undoubtely good and necessary.
