Task 1
The graph contains information about money people spend on petrol. The research was done in the USA and the UK. Three classes were compared: the poorest, the richest and middle-income people.
Results in two countries are absolutely the opposite. The UK-line gradually goes up, and reaches the peak on the point of 4 per cent. While the USA-line declines from the point of 5,3 per cent to 2,2 per cent. It means that the biggest amount of money is spent in the USA by poorest people. The same class in the UK spends only 0,5 per cent of the income. The difference in part of rich people is modest - about 1 per cent.
Overall, people from the USA spend bigger part of their income on petrol.

Task 2
The internet is quite young invention, however it already plays a big role in our life. A lot of people use it every day and can't imagine how to live without it.
As all popular things, the Internet has pluses and minuses. It's believed that the Web provides the greatest opportunities of communication. There are millions accounts in different social nets, like Facebook. Using the Internet people can connect with their friends, families, partners from every place on the Earth. Sharing pictures, videos and music has become much easier since the Internet had appeared. Personally, I spend hours chatting. I find this way of communication faster and cheaper than the post. It's a big pleasure to see the face of your friend, when you are far away from each other.
Also, the Internet has a negative side. Big hunger for information leaded to explosion of many sites, but not each of them contains true facts. In the Internet we can find quite everything, however it can be impossible to prove the correctness. Everyone can write everything he r she wants, even if it's a stupid lie. I have to search information in the Web very often, and I try to check every single fact. It takes lots of time, but it's worth doing, because the Internet is a dark forest with many surprises. Sometimes it's better to find the necessary book in a library or online.
In conclusion I want to say that the Internet is an excellent thing. I hope in the future scientists will develop it. Of course, there are some disadvantages. Although the Internet is a must-have in modern life. 
