It is the widely spread opinion that the Internet is an amazing place for making friends, talking to them and looking for the necessary information. However, another point of view exists: the Internet is full of things that have not been proved and people cannot rely on them. In this essay these two sides will be discussed.
Nowadays we cannot imagine our world without social nets. Thanks to them people have an opportunity to share their news with friends and relatives. By the way, using the Internet a person does not have to spend much money and time on meetings with someone. That’s why our lives are becoming easier. The Internet helps students with the preparation for different projects. You and the members from your group can communicate using different sites. It is possible even if people don’t live in one city. The Internet can make your friends closer to you.
On the other hand, social nets and other sites can be dangerous for people who try to find reliable information. Not every site is checked and that is why people should firstly think before choosing the Internet as a place for searching something. Also, there are a lot of things there that can bother you. For example, advertising is everywhere in the Internet. Due to it people cannot concentrate on business.
All in all, I strongly agree with the people who are against the use of the Internet. There is so much information that a person can find in books and not on the sites. Also, communication via the Internet is not what people really need when they are in a horrible mood.

The graph shows the correlation between the percentage of income and the consumption of petrol in two countries (the USA and the UK).
Overall, in the United States drivers with the low and middle income spent the larger part of the salary on fuel than in the United Kingdom people with the same income do. However, rich people in the UK spend more percentage of money that they earn than the rich in America do. The maximum of the values reaches almost 5,5%. This indicator refers to the poorest drivers in America. The minimum percentage of income that is spent on petrol is in the UK. It doesn’t exceed even 1%. This indicator represents that the poorest people spend only a small part of the income. As the graph shows drivers with the low-income are very different in the USA and in the UK. The two lines of the two countries intersect in the point of almost 4% and it means that the rich of both countries spend practically the same percentage of the income.
All in all, in the USA the richer drivers are, the less percentage of income is spent on petrol. In the UK the poorer people are, the less part of the salary is spent on fuel.
