Today money mean a lot in our lives. People can not solve their problems without it and they must work a lot to allow themselves holidays. So, it is very great thing how to enjoy yourself when you are working. Some people support that it depends on salary but others disagree. I think, that money is very important in our life and the job should gives a lot if it.
We can remember school teachers who have very low salaries and, from my point of view, it is terrible. My aunt with great results in the school and university tried to work in the school to teach a language and she was shocked about her salary. Apart from that, she met rough fellow there and decided that she would better to leave.The same story is with the medicine in our country. In Russia doctors have not enough money for their job as I reckon. I think, it is not honest thing that people who save lives can not allow to have a rest in Europe or America or can not buy a car. The data from the well-known magazine said that doctors for children who were very talanted but could not find place with high salary chose different professions for money.  
So, some people have an opposite point of view. They are sure that if a person does his or her best, he or she will be sucsessfull. For example, one member of famous team Munchster United was born in a very poor family but he worked a lot and now he is very popular and reach. Moreover, some people think that money can make a person angry and selfish. For instance, it is well-known fact that the Goverment gives a lot of money for roads in our country every year but the most of drivers are upset about quality of them. It means that somebody uses this in his own and in this case money is not the very important thing because it harms a lot of people. I do not except such situations because, to my mind, they must not exist.
To sum up, there are two points of view. Some people find that the most enjoable part of a job is money but others do not think so. I personally think, that different jobs exist for a money and of course it is the most important thing.
