Now days it is a common knowledge that young people are intended to get more and more education. Children , teenagers and even adults spend huge amount of time to succeed academically, because education is associated with prestige and success. Therefore, less attention is paid to non-academic subjects in school and more practical education after school. Some people consider it as a problem, others believe that “non-academic” knowledge can be eliminated from our educational system.
First of all, we can’t deny that our life is changing and our education need to be changed too. In modern society we don’t need to deal with huge amount of activities thanks to technologies. Due to the current way of progress, modern world needs more and more specialists in different scientific and non-scientific areas. Consequently, education is getting longer, more specialized and more intense to provide these specialists to the society.
Secondly, our education now days can be very different. To have profound knowledge in a particular area it is necessary to concentrate quite wholly on it. In this sense, non-academic lessons like PE can’t still remain obligatory in state schools. From some point, children and teenagers need to be offered to choose their priorities and “waste” less time on other subject.
It is commonly said that “non-academic subjects are needed because they can provide children with other type of skills and knowledge. PE lessons are considered to improve student’s health, cooking and labor lessons are said to be needed to save the “traditional” education. Personally, I can’t agree with this opinion. These subjects are quite useful, but children and teenagers can study them in a free time after the school. Therefore, everyone could get the amount of “sport” and cooking suitable for this individual. 
To sum up, I think that school and university education needs to become more specialized and academic. It doesn’t mean that non-academic and non-scientific subjects and education are useless. Moreover, if we remove non-academic part of education from common schools and universities, it would be possible for other structures to provide this education for people who want and need it. Finally, it would be possible to have well-paid jobs and well-educated specialists in scientific and academic areas of knowledge as well as in other areas.
