Introduction
This paper is devoted to the properties of the Imperative Mood in the English, German and Russian language.
The topicality of the paper is in the fact that modern state of science is characterized by the anthropocentric approach to the language studies. Scholars’ attention focuses on the human being, the structure of his or her personality,  his or her surrounding and attitude to reality. Due to all this, studies of mood – the category which expresses attitude of the verb action to reality – are very up-to-date. In spite of the fact that the category of the mood has been investigated thoroughly in various languages, there are several problems, touching upon the relation of the subject to the action, which should be examined.
The object of the given paper are the forms of the imperative in  English, German and Russian  as well as various lexical and syntactic units of the above mentioned languages acquiring the meaning of the imperative in the context.
The subject of the current research are structural, semantic and functional properties of the imperative forms and units expressing occasionally the meaning of imperative in English, German and Russian.
The research is carried out on the material of English, German and Russian verbal forms and illustrated by examples borrowed from fiction texts of 20th -21st  centuries.
The aim of the undertaken work is to describe semantics and functioning of the imperative in languages belonging to different groups of the Indo-European language family. The goal set in this work supposes the realization of the following tasks:
1)	to determine the place of the Imperative Mood within the category of mood;
2)	to describe morphological structure of imperative forms in English, German and Russian;
3)	to reveal the semantics of imperative forms in the given languages;
4)	to describe the pragmatic characteristics of the imperative forms in English, German and Russian;
5)	to contrast imperative forms in the given languages and single out their common and specific features;
6)	to research non-imperative use of imperative forms in Russian;
7)	to analyze imperative use of non-imperative forms in Russian;

The hypothesis of the research is that there is certain isomorphism in the structure, semantics and functioning of the Imperative Mood  in the English, German and Russian language. However, the domain of the imperative is quite diffused in each of the analyzed languages. On the one hand, several forms belonging to this category can occasionally lose the imperative meaning. On the other hand, certain forms outside the category of mood can acquire   the imperative meaning.
The theoretic basis of the paper are the works by native and foreign linguists in general languages linguistics and theoretical grammar of the English, German and Russian: E. Schendels,. O. I. Moskalskaya, V.G. Admoni, A.V. Bondarko, М.B. Khlebnikov.
The paper is based on the methods of descriptive and contrastive analysis.
The novelty of the work is that the material of different Indo-European languages is put together for the first time. The investigation shows significant expansion of the functional field of the imperative in the given languages, so  non-imperative use of imperative forms and imperative use of non-imperative forms are subject to the analysis.
This paper contributes extra information to the theory of general linguistics, grammar of English, German, Russian language and typology. The theoretical value of the paper is in a careful investigation of structural, semantic, functional features of the imperative in English, German and Russian, contrasting imperative forms in the given languages and singling out their isomorphic and allomorphic features.
The practical value of the paper is in the fact that its results can be used in teaching the English, German and Russian language and  can also be of help in preparing courses in general linguistics, introduction into linguistics, theoretical grammar of the English, German and Russian language and language typology.
The paper consists of the introduction, three chapters, the conclusion and a list of literature. The introduction exposes the topicality of this work, its aims, tasks, theoretical basis and methods.
The first chapter deals with general properties of the imperative and its place in the system of mood. The second chapter is devoted to morphology, semantics and functioning of imperative forms in English, German and Russian. The third chapter describes peripheral phenomena of the English, German and Russian Imperative Mood.

Chapter 1
1.	The Place of the Imperative in the System of Moods
The category of Mood is inflectional morphological category of the verb. It is used for expressing the relation between the context of the utterance and reality. Such a relation is called objective modality which is to be found in each sentence. It is very important to differ positive and negative obliqueness.  Positive obliqueness implies that the action is possible or desirable. Negative obliqueness means that the action has not been performed and is not likely to take place.
Markers of unreal modality in different languages can have morphological expression. Most languages have morphological markers of probability, possibility, wish and so on.
Grammaticalization of modality markers    is only possible when they enter the sphere of “estimative” (locutionary) modality and begin expressing the speaker’s point of view. In this case a number of oblique moods, which are opposed to the indicative can appear. 
Epistemic moods (originating on the basis of markers of ability and necessity) express different types of epistemic characterization: epistemic disability or doubt, epistemic ability or probability, epistemic necessity or assertion. The expression of unreal condition can be described within an epistemic mood.
Voluntative moods can appear on the basis of special markers, for example, the Optative Mood in Gothic that was used, alongside with the expression of aim, unreal condition etc., to express the speaker’s wish.
 The imperative, on the contrary, combines the expression of wish with that of causation. It renders different shades of wish and belongs undoubtedly to language universals. 
So, the Imperative Mood is a verbal form which is used to convey orders, commands and requests – one of the main illocutive types of utterances. It is quite obvious that any language possesses sufficient means to express imperative meanings; moreover, there is no doubt that orders and prohibitions belong to the earliest communicative acts. Animals’ languages are mostly imperative; the same can be said of primates taught a sign language. Young children are known to acquire forms of the imperative first.
Most languages have special forms of the imperative. These verb forms, belonging to the category of mood, are the subject of this paper. It equally covers a wide range of related problems such as the expression of will by different moods and the use of imperative forms in   non-imperative meanings.  						
In German studies there are different points of view whether it is possible to consider the imperative as a mood. Traditionally three moods are singled out:  the indicative (Indikativ), the subjunctive (Konjunktiv), and the Imperative (Imperativ). However, some scholars argue that the system of mood oppositions should be treated differently.
H. Glinz claims that the imperative goes beyond the system of German moods due to its paradigmatic, functional and topological properties.  The imperative is semantically contrasted to the indicative and subjunctive. H. Glinz introduces new terms in his theory: Fordemde Formen (forms expressing request) and Sagformen (affirmative forms).
The famous Russian linguist O. I. Moskalskaya has a more radical opinion. She considers that the imperative in German can’t refer to the same grammatical category as the indicative and the subjunctive. Moskalskaya insists that the imperative should be considered separately. To prove it the scholar reveals different meanings of the imperative, on the one hand, and the indicative and the conjunctive, on the other hand. Basing on communicative types of sentences, Moskalskaya describes oppositions of these moods. See: Moskalskaya 1975,76.
The scholar reveals the relationship of the imperative with such communicative  types of sentences as statements, questions, orders, etc. It should be mentioned that  she misses a very significant point: certain types of motivation can be expressed with the help of  both indicative and subjunctive. A slightly modified scheme by Moskalskaya can illustrate the above said.
G. Helbig and M.D Stepanova support this view. They argue in  favour of the fact that the imperative devoid of tense distinctions and having very specific syntactic functions can’t be spoken of as a mood.
In spite of its differences from the indicative and the conjunctive the imperative has syntactic functions and meaning of its own. It allows us to consider the imperative as a separate mood. 
In the Russian and English language this problem does not seem to be relevant.
To summarize, the imperative is opposed to the indicative and subjunctive moods. However, as the imperative expresses one’s wish and the action is unreal, it makes the imperative rather close to the Subjunctive Mood. The imperative describes a potential action. In German most scholars consider the imperative to be an independent mood because of its specific syntactic and semantic properties. In English and Russian the problem of singling out the imperative as a separate mood is not so urgent. In these languages the autonomy of the imperative has always been taken for granted.   

Chapter 2
2. The Structure, the Semantics and the Functioning of Imperative
2.1. The structure of English imperative
It is not difficult to notice that the verbal imperative is closely connected with the spective mood as it has the same infinitive stem. These can be forms of the verb be and other verbs, (e.g. be off! or do be patient! or don’t be angry!). As it is known, the Imperative Mood is analyzed in certain grammatical treatises as a semantically direct mood, related to the indicative. A form of the imperative can express various meanings that can easily be shown by means of equivalent transformations [Bloch, 189].
In the whole the imperative is unable to express tense distinctions (an action expressed by the imperative can refer either to the present or to the near future).
The construction with let is frequently used to underline causation in relation to all the persons, but mostly to the first person plural and third person both numbers. 
The types of structures mentioned above can be marked by a high frequency of usage, uniformity of construction, regularity of links with the  native morphemic spective form of the verb. It should be observed, that they are more multi-purposed in style than a spective form proper. These properties show that described constructions can be used as functional equivalents of the spective mood proper.

2.2. The Structure of Imperative in the Russian Language
In Russian the forms of the Imperative Mood of 2nd Pers. Sing. are built by two main ways:  with the help of the suffix –и or with a zero suffix. 
As a rule the marker of the imperative is attached to the present tense stem. However, there are some exceptions. They are
1)	the verbs вставать, доставать, оставаться, давать, узнавать with non-typical correlation of stems of present and past tenses: the affix -ва- in present tense is missed and the suffix –j- is added. Compare:  вставать-встаю.The imperative forms of these verbs retain the suffix -ва-. The suffix –j- is added to the stem which coincides with the infinitive form. Such a suffix can be estimated as a marker of the present tense stem and another variant of the imperative marker: вставай, доставай and so on;
2)	the verbs of archaic conjugation дать, создать, есть. With the verbs дать and создать the imperative is built in the same way as in the previous group (дать-дай, создать-создай). 
The marker –и of the imperative is not so frequent. It is used to make up forms of the Imperative Mood with such verbs as смотреть, кричать,таить,поить, закончить, прыгнуть, вынести, выписать. The stress can be either on the imperative marker or on the root, sometimes on the prefix.
Other verbs have a zero marker of the Imperative Mood. However, some special features can be noticed:
1)	the verbs бить, лить, пить, шить with –и- in the root have on the its place in the imperative –e-: бить-бью-бей; лить-лью-лей. So, the alternation /i/,/j/,/ej/ takes place in the  root morpheme;
2)	the verb лечь builds its imperative forms from the present tense stem ляг-; the velar consonant /g/ is not submitted to the general rule of  palatalization  consonant in the imperative: лягут-ляг, comp. сядут-сядь;
3)	The letter ь is a graphical marker of the imperative in cases when the final fricative consonant of the stem remains unpalatalized: отрезать-отрежу-отрежь, услышать-услышу-услышь.

2.3. The Structure of the Imperative in the German Language
The imperative is a set of forms serving to express the subject’s will. It implies a direct contact between the speakers. Consequently, its paradigm is limited by two forms only – those of the 2nd pers., Sing., Pl. and the polite form.
The form of the 2nd pers. Sing. Is built from the stem of the infinitive with the help of the suffix –e. Irregular verbs having –e as the root vowel modify it for –i: gib, nimm, lies. The suffix is if the stem ends in a dental consonant –d, -t (bade, arbeite), a sonorant consonant –m,-n (zeichne,atme),  l, er (lächle, verändere ) and after the affix –ig (beruhige dich). In other cases the suffix –e is facultative. It is usually dropped in the spoken language in irregular verbs changing –e- to –i- (lies, gib, nimm). It should be mentioned that these forms are variable sieh, siehe: sieh is used in the academic style.
The polite form of imperative is built from the infinitive followed by the personal pronoun Sie the use of which is obligatory (Sie lesen - lesen Sie). Plural forms of the imperative differ from the corresponding indicative forms by the loss of a personal pronoun (ihr lest - lest). The verb sein forms its imperative from the same stem as the Conjunctive: sei, seid, seien Sie. As a rule, personal pronouns du and ihr are not used as the verbal form is able to express person and number characteristics. However, sometimes it is possible to use personal pronouns:
1)	to emphasize the order: “Bose zischte die, alte ihm zu “ schweis du!”
2)	to oppose the 2-nd person to others: “Trag du es lieber! Geh du voraus!“ ( not er or ihr).
The form of the cohortative belongs to the paradigm of the imperative (gehen wir, lesen wir). It can be named the inclusive person because it includes both the speaker and the preceptor. The cohortative is built from of the 1st pers. Sing. Followed by the corresponding personal pronoun wir. Unlike the other imperative forms, it expresses  invitation, order, but not direct command. Some German scholars are  convinced that this form doesn’t belong to the paradigm of the Imperative Mood. The structure of “Wollen wir + Infinitive” (Wollen wir anfangen?)  is used instead of the imperative. So, such sentences do not express the speaker’s will, but rather an invitation to some act.

2.4. Semantics of the Imperative in German
The imperative is considered to be the mood of the direct speech. Imperative sentences are traditionally pronounced with a special intonation which can vary and render different modal meanings: from orders proper or prohibitions to suggestions, invitations, requests and implorations. These meanings are rendered not only grammatically, that is, by the verb form, but also lexically, by means of  such words as bitte, sofort, unverzüglich, etc. The imperative meaning often can be emphasized by repetition of verb forms:
This example shows that the imperative can be a means of personification when addressing an inanimate object. 

2.5. Semantics of English imperative
The imperative sentences very often are used to express causation. They can be either affirmative or negative. The communicative task of the imperative sentence is to tell the listener how to act, so silence on the part of the interlocutor listening to a request is quite justified. This gap in speech is going to be filled in by the listener’s action or his or her response. 
It should be noticed that an imperative sentence proper differs from a declarative sentence. The former does not express any proposition but rather is based on it, without formulating it directly. 
The imperative sentence is usually characterized by a high informative value. The rheme’s informative peak can be found against the background information.
As for thematic  elements of the imperative utterance, they contain  different kinds of causation –  commands, prohibitions, requests, admonitions, entreaties and so on. 

2.6. Semantics of the Imperative Mood in Russian
The Imperative indicates the attempt of the speaker to cause somebody to do an action. The Imperative Mood expresses an action that is not performed yet. It is used to encourage, give orders, ask for something, express a request, permission, prohibition, etc. It is the context that allows to define the meaning of the imperative in the given utterance. Intonation and, in written speech, punctuation marks contribute to it. 
The Imperative serves to render different kinds of illocutive modality. They can be expressed as well by interrogative sentences including modal verbs. Another way of expressing the same idea is the use of lexically with the help of the particles or the conditional mood. 
Imperative expressions are performative, i.e they represent speech acts which are already actions. Such an utterance is an action by itself. Thus, imperative exclamations can be estimated in terms of success vs unsuccessfulness of the corresponding actions.

In this case the imperative utterances cannot be estimated in terms of true/false.

2.6.1. Causation
Causation is the main component of the imperative’s semantics. Some scholars doubt whether this component is compulsory. They consider that such speech acts as permission and advice can be expressed by the imperative. However, the research of causative markers shows that the meanings of permission, admission and request  are typical of causative markers as well. 
Due to the causative element in its semantics the imperative utterance requires a reaction of the addressee. Most often it is followed by a physical or mental action or by a speech act of agreement or disagreement. In this way imperative utterances are close to interrogative ones, implying requests. 

2.6.2 Desirability
A lot of sources of interpretation of the imperative contain the reference to the speaker’s desire. In fact the addressee’s wish to create an action can often be the cause of using the Imperative. However, such imperative acts as permission or advice are not motivated by the speaker’s wish that is why in number of works the wish is excluded from the meaning of the imperative. The wish, however, is the necessary element of imperative semantics, and that is why the imperative forms are often used for the expression of wish  (Будь здоров! Не грусти!).

2.6.3. Controllability
Causing the addressee to perform the speaker expects the recipient to be able to turn this action into reality, i.e. to control the action. The verbs which denote uncontrolled states, properties, situations can have no imperative at all (*хоти, *видь) or they use it only in subordinate clauses of condition (окажись, случись, принадлежи).  Preventives (speech acts which aim is to prevent an undesirable event) break this principle:   не забудь, не урони, не повреди, не пропусти, не потеряйся. The goal of such an act is to prevent the object from performing an action (Не простудись! подразумевает ‘не пей холодную воду, не гуляй без шапки’ и т.д.).
Preventives are often marked by the particle смотри (See [Добрушина, Даниэль 2008]).
Some verbs can hardly form the imperative for semantic reasons. Thus, it is impossible to put the verbs значить, наличествовать, преобладать, поиздержаться, поизноситься, приустать, подзабыть and others into the imperative form. 
The imperative of the 2nd Pers. can be addressed to the listener ( the plural form is used if the speaker communicates with the listener using polite вы)

2.7. Functioning of the English  Imperative
Constructions and their compatibility, as Goldberg (1995) argues convincingly, are associated directly with semantic structures which reflect conceptual scenes basic to human experience. “Numerous cognitive studies have revealed that clause structures reflect experientially grounded gestalts, such as that of someone deliberately transferring some energy to someone else, someone influencing someone else to change state (What if I get Samantha to pick up Emma at the school gate?), someone experiencing something (I feel pain), among others. Languages are  well-organized sets of constructions; there are systematic relations linking a variety of inheritance relations” (Goldberg 1995: 67). A basic axiom that is adopted here is that the imperative is a language construction, linked to other constructions such as the infinitive and the subjunctive. What has received relatively less attention in current discussion, however, is the problem of compatibility between constructions. It is argued that two constructions more comfortably merge when the two are more compatible in conceptual
terms. Conversely, two constructions do not readily merge if they are conceptually incompatible. For example, imperatives in the passive form generally look awkward (?Be helped by George) but become felicitous in some contexts (Be flattered by what he says; it’ll make his day). Conversely, the imperative and the active sentence are two constructions which readily merge (Help me!/Call me when you are ready!), on the grounds that the active sentence typically evokes an ‘AGENT-ACTS (ON PATIENT)’ scenario. The two constructions share a common semantic structure; the imperative subsumes the active construction in its prototypical structure.
Several sentences with the imperative have rather a conditional meaning:
Being semantically a conditional, the two conjuncts are symmetric in epistemic attitude. 
            It should be noticed that in English imperative construction, the subject is used in sentences where the pronoun you occurs before the imperative.
The VS structure that we find in Russian is therefore absent in English.  As has been noted before in the literature (see e.g. Davies 1986 for an overview), there is no morphological difference between the imperative and the infinitive in English. In some cases it is therefore difficult to make a functional distinction between these parts of speech. Consider, for example, the following sentence, in which the phrase be quiet could be interpreted both as an infinitive and as an imperative: 
Not considering these complications, it is possible to provide a number of functions of the imperative subject in English. Davies (1986) notices that an important reason to use the subject you in English is to indicate a contrast.
Like in Russian, English also has a number of uses of the imperative subject that are non-contrastive. As is remarked by Davies, in some sentences the imperative subject seems to add a nuance of ‘irritation’, or ‘impatience’, or even ‘aggression’.
However, in other sentences these nuances are missing, and the imperative subject seems to add a note of ‘amicable encouragement or comforting reassurance’: 
Davies tries to account for both types of uses in terms of the common element of authority. According to her the use of a subject signals an imposition upon the addressee. The feature of authority is also present in cases like (80) because the speaker is expressing his authority to advice or approve a particular course of action for the addressee. This view is also held by De Clerck (2005, 2006), and reformulated by Moon (2001) in terms of the speaker’s territorial claim on the information expressed by the imperative. 
In my view, Davies is right in explaining the function of the subject in terms of the relation between the hearer and the speaker. What all the uses of the subject have in common is that the speaker reinforces or emphasizes the directive speech act in a context where it is taken into account that the addressee will not perform, considers not performing the situation or where the mere idea of non-realization is contextually implied. This can be illustrated with the following contexts. 
First, the speaker may use a subject because he demands from the addressee to cooperate and comply (often with words like now that focus the attention of the addressee on the action that has to be performed). In some cases this use signals an authoritarian attitude towards the speaker, but in many contexts the speaker takes into account that the addressee will be inclined not to comply immediately.
In the context of negation this type can easily have the character of ‘don’t dare to do this’, presupposing that the speaker takes into account that the addressee might perform the situation.

2.8. Functioning of Russian imperative
2.8.1 Appeal
In the imperative constructions address is commonly used. It can be placed before or after the imperative, in contact or distantly:
2.8.2. Expressivity of the subject
The address usually differs from the subject, which is less typical for such constructions. The address is usually separated from the rest of the sentence by a pause. In written speech the pause is denoted by a comma. When followed by the imperative the words of address continue its intonation.
2.8.3. The subject with the direct imperative use (Подлежащее при прямом употреблении императива)
The imperative of the 2nd Pers. is usually used without any pronoun.
The imperative can be used in pl. with indefinite and negative pronouns, however imperative in Sg. form is also possible.
2.8.4. The subject with the indirect imperative use (Подлежащее при непрямом употреблении императива)
The use of the 2nd Pers. is typical of the indirect imperative.
For the most indirect cases of using the imperative there is a tendency to build the subject with the help of the 1st and the 3d Pers.
2.8.5. Insubordination
One of the most important characteristics of the imperative is its disability to be the predicate in the indirect speech: *Он мне сказал, что приходи. However, non-normative use can also be found in colloquial speech. 
The possibility of using the imperative in the indirect speech is accompanied by such particles мол, дескать и де functioning as indirect speech markers. 
The imperative in non-imperative meanings has a different degree of dependence. Some of them, e.g. the meaning of conditional is found  in  subordinate clauses only.
Constructions with пусть are easily transformed into indirect speech.
2.8.6. The use of the particle -ка
The particle -ка, expressing desirability of the action and the interlocutor’s inducement. ([Храковский, Володин 1986/2001], [Левонтина 1991]), is combined with all causative forms including the imperative.
To sum up, imperative in German, Russian and English due to its developed system of meanings and forms has different functions: it is actively used in communication, it is very variable. The results of represented research show that the English, German and Russian imperatives radically differ despite the alliance of their meanings. Undoubtedly, in three languages described above the imperative mood expresses direct commands, prohibitions, and requests. It should be noticed that, in each of the contrasted languages there is a number of non-imperative forms equally able to express imperative meanings. In the third chapter of this research one can find out that semantic field of the Russian imperative is vaguer than English and German ones. 
In many circumstances, using the imperative mood may sound blunt or even rude, so it is often used with care. An imperative is used to tell someone to do something without argument. The structure of English imperative singles out among German and Russian ones by its homonymy of forms. The most complicated structure of imperative among these languages has Russian. Russian imperative is built by adding special affixes, inside of which alternation can be found.  It should be mentioned that, English, German and Russian imperatives have both similarities and differences in functioning. The more objective function of the subject – expressing a contrast with another agent/subject – was found in all three languages. With respect to the intersubjective, pragmatic functions of the subject similarities could be found on an abstract level only. The specific way in which these functions operate differs considerably, however, from Russian to English and German. Such differences are probably due to the different linguistic structures in which the imperative operates. Russian has a relatively free word order, which also plays a part in the case of a subject used with the imperative. Due to this, the specific semantics associated with specific word orders also plays a part in the case of the imperative with a subject. In English and German, however, this feature does not play a part because it has a relatively rigid word order. More specifically, where Russian has a semantic division of labor between the V́S order and the SV́ order, English has a much simpler structure, with only one order (the SV order).

Chapter 3
3.	The Peripheral Meanings of the Imperative Category 
The Imperative in Russian has a lot of secondary uses where it does not have a meaning of motivation. It can also be characterized by a number of properties that can differ from the prototypical Imperative. For example, the form of the imperative of 2nd Pers. can be used with the pronouns 1st and 3rd Pers.
Several linguists try to find out the invariant meaning of imperative forms. However, the generic seme of the imperative can hardly be singled out, so forms in their imperative and non-imperative use are semantically quite different.  Secondary meanings of the imperative are spread in several languages. Their typology is as following:
-	Wish
-	obligation
-	affirmative imperative 
-	hortatory condition
-	conditional concessive
-	Condition
Indirect performances of the Imperative in Russian differ according to the degree of their divergence from the primary imperative meaning.
-	the imperative of wish
The form of the imperative of the 2nd Pers. can be used for expressing wishes. Curses are most frequent, however they are limited by a number of verbs. The most spread constructions with the meaning of wish are idiomatic (Разрази меня / тебя / его гром; Спаси меня / тебя / его Бог).
The imperative of wish can be used with every Pers. The subject is obligatory for 1st and 3d Pers. and can be omitted with the 2nd Pers. (Будь проклят / Будь ты проклят):
The particle -ка is not added to the imperative of wish: *Будь-ка ты проклят. This restriction has a logical character.  
The word order in such constructions is free though constructions with the initial imperative are considerably more frequent.
-	the imperative of obligation
The imperative of obligation can be found as a rule in compound sentences (the final clause).
The imperative of obligation always describes the situation which is not desirable for the speaker.
Such imperative expresses obligation that must be carried out in any case.
The pronoun вы is not typical of the imperative of obligation because the 2nd pers. is generalized and does not have any particular referent.
Affirmative imperative
Affirmative imperative is used to mark an unexpected action or an event usually in combination with возьми; two imperative forms are joined by the conjunction и (да и):
This case should be distinguished from similar motivating constructions with the возьми . The affirmative imperative shows an unexpected situation and can be changed to past tense (взяла и рассказала).
The Imperative of motivating condition
In many languages the imperative shows a hypothetical condition in some situations. In such constructions the imperative retains its motivating action and can be interpreted as advice. 
The attaching of -ка is not forbidden: The word order is not fixed, however it is preferable to start the sentence with the imperative. 
The perfective aspect is common for such constructions.
The imperative of motivating condition should be differed from the conditional imperative. The main difference is that the conditional imperative does not have the meaning of motivation: using this form the speaker does not propose the addressee to perform an action or at last imagine its realization.
Thus, the subject connected with the imperative of the motivating condition can be agentive and only the 2nd Pers. 
Conditional imperative
The conditional imperative is the most common kind of non-imperative performance. As a rule this kind of imperative means the situation which has never occurred and  will never take place in  reality. 
The subject can be used in 1st, 2nd or 3rd pers. The 2nd Pers. is used less frequent. The subject can never be dropped.
The conditional imperative does not attach the marker of the pl. form  -те, even if the subject is in pl.
In constructions with the conditional imperative the word order is fixed. The imperative  always takes the initial position.
The conditional imperative is found in a subordinate clause only.
The particle -ка could be added to the conditional imperative in the Russian language of the beginning of 20th century.
In the conditional construction the imperative of the verbs, which do not usually have the imperative forms can be used. For instance, the verbs rendering uncontrolled  processes and properties of inanimate objects. 
As it has been above mentioned the functional field of the Imperative Mood is extremely vague. In each of the contrasted languages there are non-imperative forms equally able to render imperative meanings. 
One of the claims of the present work is that the imperative can and should be viewed as a category with the nucleus and the periphery that are well outlined. Specifically, one can propose the following as a characterization of prototypical imperative: The Prototype Imperative The speaker exerts a high (near [+1]) directive force in a deictic setting toward the addressee, who will thereby perform an action in a hypothetical setting. ii. The speaker plays the semantic role of a causer-like agent, and the addressee that of a causee-like agent. That is, there is intention/volition on the part of the speaker to cause the listener to make the propositional content true, and the pressure/force is typically (though necessarily) strong. Considering the most obvious association between the imperative and the notion of force, the degree of force can be taken as the primary criterion in the assessment of imperative prototypicality. In its most natural interpretation, Get out of my way or Just hold your tongue, exemplifies the most prototypical imperative, since the sentence involves strong directive force (prototypical in row A), the (implicit) subject (= an individuated addressee, plays the role of causer-agent (prototypical in row B), and the fulfillment of the designated situation is assumed to benefit the speaker (prototypical in row C). Conversely, Be sick (and they’ll put you in bed) is non-prototypical, or even peripheral use, in that the sentence hardly contains any force exertion (either directive or non-directive), the subject cannot be construed as an agent, and what is said is not in the interest of the speaker (or the addressee). The category view of the imperative is of crucial importance in an analysis of imperatives. For one thing, it leads us to neatly explain the felicity of some passive imperatives in English, by resorting to features of non-prototypical imperative. In addition, it provides a clear picture of two conjoined conditional imperatives with and and or – i.e., in terms of non-prototypical and prototypical, respectively. It will be argued that and-conditional imperatives and or-conditional imperatives stand in complementary distribution within the category of imperative. Imperatives with strong force (i.e., instances of prototypical imperatives) are unwelcome in and-conditional imperatives but welcome in or-conditional imperatives. Conversely, imperatives without strong force (i.e., instances of non-prototype imperatives) are welcome in the former but unwelcome in the latter.
To summarize, the meanings of the imperative can be expressed differently and at the same time the imperative forms can render various meanings. There are some imperative forms in Russian with non-imperative meanings. Он меня не слушается, хоть ты тресни!// А он возьми и не приди).In German imperative meanings can be expressed not only with the help of the imperative but also in a more complicated way. English is not rich in imperative forms, and English imperative has strictly imperative meaning.

Conclusion
As other finite verb forms, imperatives have the mark of person and number (but for English where affirmative and negative imperatives are only distinguished). Imperatives of the 2nd pers. are used for orders, requests coming immediately from the addresser. They are the most typical; however some languages also have cohortative and jussive forms of imperative.
The imperative in the English language is built with the help of the bare infinitive  of the verb. It is similar to the 2nd Pers. Present Simple form, excluding the case of the verb to be, where the imperative is expressed by the verb be and the indicative is are. Negative imperatives require the auxiliary verb do: "Don't kill me!") The imperative considered to be in the second person (the subject pronoun you is usually missed but sometimes is used for emphasis), with no differentiation of Sing.or Pl. forms. 1st and 3rd Pers.  imperatives are built analytically with the help of let.
In Russian forms of the imperative derive from the stem of the present. The singular forms can be built in two ways: 1) by adding the ending -и to the stem (пиш-и; жужж-и); 2) by a zero affix, while the stem ends in a palatalized consonant (сядь, стань). The forms of the plural are built by adding the ending -те to the form of the singular (сп-и>спи-те). In Russian colloquial forms of the 1st person plural such as forms as поедемте, поехалите are occasionally used. 
Imperative forms in Russian can be subject to some variability e.g вымажи - вымажь, выкини – выкинь, выброси – выбрось [Graudina and others 1976:191-196]. 
Some of imperative forms used in military speech are built  with the help of the reduced reflexive postfix -сь. This phenomenon can be observed in such forms as  стройся – стройсь, разойдися – разойдись.
Other languages such as German have various types of inflected imperative forms, denoting person and number. Their structure depends on the type of conjugation. The use of forms of the 2nd Pers. imperative is determined by terms of equality or familiarity appearing between the speaker and the recipient.
The bare  stem of the verb usually forms the 2nd Pers. Sing of imperative.
Many languages, even not normally null-subject languages, omit the subject pronoun in imperative sentences, as usually occurs in English. Details of the syntax of imperative sentences in the Russian and German language, and of differences between affirmative and negative imperatives are also researched. Imperatives are used principally for ordering, requesting or advising the listener to do (or not to do) something: "Put down the gun!"; "Pass me the sauce"; "Don't go too near the tiger." They are also often used for giving instructions as to how to perform a task ("Install the file, then restart your computer"). They can sometimes be seen on signs giving orders or warnings ("Stop"; "Give way"; "Do not enter").
The use of the imperative mood may be seen as impolite, inappropriate or even offensive in certain circumstances. In polite speech, orders or requests are often phrased instead as questions or statements, rather than as imperatives:
Politeness strategies (for instance, indirect speech acts) can seem more appropriate in order not to threaten a conversational partner in their needs of self-determination and territory: the partner's negative face should not appear threatened. As well as the replacement of imperatives with other sentence types as discussed above, there also often exist methods of phrasing an imperative in a more polite manner, such as the addition of a word like please or a phrase like if you could.
Imperatives are also used for speech acts whose function is essentially not to make an order or request, but to give an invitation, give permission, express a wish, make an apology, etc.:
First person plural imperatives (cohortatives) are used mainly for suggesting an action to be performed together by the speaker and the addressee (and possibly other people): "Let's go to Barbados this year"; "Let us pray". Third person imperatives are used to suggest or order that somebody be permitted or made to do something: "Let them eat cake".
Finally, there is a certain isomorphism in the structure, semantics and functioning of the Imperative Mood in the English, German and Russian language. However, the domain of the imperative is quite diffused in each of the analyzed languages. On the one hand, several forms belonging to this category can occasionally lose the imperative meaning. On the other hand, certain forms outside the category of mood can occasionally acquire   the imperative meaning.
