1.  Abstract
In this work internal modality will be discussed. The main purpose of the present study was to research the specificity of this category in the English and German language at all stages of their developing in comparison to Russian, as a language not closely-related to both. Modal verbs are supposed to be the main exponents of this category. Thus, in order to specify the category, original texts and an existing theoretical framework are used to find similarities and differences in the etymology of Germanic and Slavonic modal verbs. 
As the only study so far, this study conducts a comprehensive comparative analysis of internal modality expression in English and German on a modal verbs’ basis.  An important result of this study is, that in terms of choice semantics is dominating because of its closer relationship with psychology wherefrom the notion of modality has come into linguistics. 
Comparing the data of Russian, English and German it is possible to state that modality expression in Russian is closer to it in German. The matter is that proportions of synonymous modals usage in these languages are equal while English-to-Russian correspondence is rather rare.

2. Introduction
2.1. Investigation degree
The modern interpretation of modality comprises everything that is somehow connected to the speaker’s attitude to reality. The matter concerns all segments of languages expressing possibility, need, desire, intention, planning, will, requirement, ask, order, emotional attitude to acts and situations and even not segments like intonation. 
During three past decades both Russian and foreign scientists addressed the problem of modality. Among the representatives of the Moscow school V.V.Vinogradov can be singled out for his contribution to modality investigation. Besides, Kolschansky, Shvedova, Zolotova, Panfilov tried to research modality within the limits of logics. 
Later on Lomtev and Vorkachev – specialists in the field of German philology – considered the problem in a broader sense. 
Shaposhnikova and Ermolaeva devoted their monographs to modality in comparative linguistics context. 
In the end of the nineties B.Y.Arama examined the psycholinguistic aspect of the category of modality. V.V.Gurevich investigated modality as a subjective component of semantics, some linguists covered the field of modality bearing in mind pragmatics. 
The works of scientists from Saint-Petersburg and Kasan are also significant.
The most important English papers on this topic belong to Freeborn, Robinson, Warner who dealt with diachrony and the system of verb forms in English.
Among German linguists Weida, Kytö, Schröder, Ertmer, Hartweg and Wegera got rapt attention because their works highlight English, German and even Russian at different stages.  
Nevertheless, the majority of the mentioned papers deal with modality only within the framework of synchronism. In rare cases it is a question of diachrony but only in the sense that the languages were investigated on the definite stage of their evolution. But still scientific commonwealth has made an arrangement to mean by a real diachronic research a study considering the topic in discrete steps.
Consequently, it must be noted that, unfortunately, serious scientific base for the problem of (internal) modality in English and German in comparison with the Russian language in diachrony is still lacking. So the present study has an opportunity to be the harbinger of a new tendency in this field of linguistics. 

2.2. The urgency of the theme
The period of the end of XX – beginning of XXI century is characterized by globalization and the new level of integration in a qualitative sense. National borders within Europe are becoming more open, international business and tourism is rapidly developing, English dominates globally in all spheres of life, whereas German is the second most important language in Russian business. Thus, foreign language learning is gaining popularity all over the world and their language skills enable people of different cultures to communicate with each other. 
However, this communication is complicated not only by the imperfection of people´s foreign language knowledge, but also by the differences in the native speakers´ perception of the language units, even in case of closely-related languages. It means that each language forms a certain linguistic worldview for its native speakers; and anyway the collision between them occurs in the process of communication. This problem of incomplete mutual understanding is particularly significant in terms of modality as this category reflects relation to actions and reality.
In this case contradictions and inconsistencies are inevitable since language is not an abstract system, not the basis for speaking, but subjective activity realizing speaking, listening, writing and reading. [Motoki, 1940, Potebnya, 1892] 
The way we see, hear, perceive and interpret the world is predetermined mainly by language habits of our society (Sapir, 2003). The content of this notion becomes clear if we bear in mind that according to majority of theories consciousness is a kind of behaviour. To conclude, language habits are the essence of thought which is in turn identified with perception and consciousness. 
The second significant factor having a great impact on our perception and interpretation of the world is grammar, i.e. language units are not just a tool to reproduce thoughts, but also the generator of thoughts, it is a program managing the mental activity of an individual and a method of analyzing and synthesis of his impressions. [Whorf, 2003]
These thoughts have a direct relation to the understanding of the category of modality in linguistics because modality, in fact, is nothing more than an individual’s personal perception of the reality around him; and its relation to the acts committed by him or with respect to him, represents internal modality. [Grauberg, 1978] Exactly this lexico-grammatical category in the language is the exponent and the bearer of so-called "national spirit" [Humboldt , 1984], the mentality of ethnos. Using modal verbs, we thus express our relation to performed acts, react to the situation or predetermine it.
Because of their subjective perception, speakers of foreign languages either distort the modality of their native language or introduce it into an utterance in another language, and both types of spoilage, as a rule, occur simultaneously. [Tupenko, 2011]. The reason for this can be a doubling of fundamental modal meanings inside the language or unequivalence of their numerical relation in different languages [Budiltseva, 1984]. Thus, at least three English verbs (must, should, ought) and minimum two German ones (müssen, sollen) correspond to the Russian verb dolzhenstvovat’. 

2.3. Practical importance
Statements and conclusions contained in this study may be used in further theoretical studies on the problem of modality as a linguistic and philosophical category, as well as on the issue of internal modality in linguistics.
This study inherent information, findings, results, and materials may be used in the compiling of etymological, historical and frequency dictionaries of English, German and Russian languages.
Besides, the findings are useful for the teaching in theoretical and practical courses, such as: the history of language, comparative typology, typological stylistics, lexicology, etc., furthermore for the writing of new educational and scientific works and during practical lessons on the above-mentioned disciplines.

2.4. Hypotheses
Modal verbs come from preterite-present forms.
The way modal verbs develop their meanings depends on the mentality of each nation.
There are similarities in Russian, English and German modality’s expression.
The worldviews are close to each other.
It is possible to find some regularities and predict the future for some modals.

3. Methods
This study has a number of tasks, that are presented in the following. First at all it has to define the content of modality and the role of modals in its expression. Further, it has to discover the etymology and semantic relations of the  modal verbs. In addition, a possible evolution of modal meanings using concrete passages of texts has to be reconstructed. The study also conducts semantic analysis in transformation preterite-present verbs into modals and discovers common language laws managing the evolution of language means with an example of modals. Finally it makes some prognosis dealing with future modals usage relying on language history.
There is no unconscious component, which is the result of previous generations’ language experience, in selecting of modality’s means of expression. This disadvantage can be balanced only by appeal to history. Diachronic research of internal modality does not only help to understand the mechanism of language means’ selection but also to find the roots of inconsistencies and contradictions both similar and different ways of expressing internal modality in English, German and Russian thereby avoiding misunderstanding during communication.
Scientific novelty lies in the following.
For the first time a comprehensive comparative analysis of internal modality expression in English and German is conducted on a modal verbs’ basis. 
Similarities and differences of modality in closely-related English and German and not closely-related to them Russian are clearly recognized.
At the same time semantic features of the above-mentioned languages at all stages of their evolution are in focus of this study.
The object of investigation is internal modality as a linguistic category in English, German and Russian in diachronic comparison.
The subject of investigation consists in the detailed analysis of semantic aspect of modal verbs as the main means of expressing internal modality on the ancient, middle and new stages of developing of the three languages; further in identifying of their etymology and semantic relationship; in analysis of preterite-present and modal verbs usage in original texts of all the stages; in finding of analogies and differences of modality expressions in English, German and Russian and explaining their reasons.
Material of research serve original English and German texts of ancient, middle and new periods; etymological and frequency dictionaries of German, English and Russian. 
It is worth mentioning that only the semantic aspect is focused in this work,  because it is not possible to consider all grammatical and phonetic features of modals within one study

4. Results
4.1. The ancient stage (the middle of V – the end of XI)
In Old English and in Old High German we find two preterite-present verbs with the meaning ‘to know’ (the OE witan and  the OHG wizzan; the OE cunnan and the OHG kunnan), two – ‘to be able to’ (the OE maӡan and the OHG magan; the OE mōt and the OHG muozzan), one – ‘to be good for sth.’ (the OE dūӡan and the OHG toug), one – ‘to grant’ in English version and ‘to envy’ in German one (the OE unnan and the OHG giunnan), one – ‘to need’ (the OE ϸurfan and the OHG durfan), one – ‘to have to’ (the OE sculan and the OHG scolan), one – ‘to be enough’ (the OE ӡenēah and the OHG ginah), one – ‘to dare’ (the OE durran and the OHG gitar), the Old English ‘to remember’ (munan) and the closed to preterite-present verbs athematic ‘to want’ (the OE willan and the OHG wellen)
These verbs, being the main exponents of the ancient modality stage of development of the Germanic languages, give an idea of subjective perception of reality by Old English and Old High German native speakers due to national and linguistic features, and probably living conditions of these people. Thus, the notions of knowledge, power, possibility to do anything, obligation, will, memory, courage, impudence, the absence or presence of envy, wealth, need and suitability were of great importance for German folks.
Thus, even now I can notice that there was no preterite-present verb in Old High German with the meaning ‘to remember’ and, consequently, this meaning had not modal character. Moreover, we reveal several verbs with synonymous meanings but it contradicts the fact that language does not accept exact duplicates. It means we should find shades of the meaning for each verb, and the best way to do it is to appeal to their etymology and to compare them with their counterparts in related to some extent languages.
1) The OE witan and  the OHG wizzan can be traced back to the Indo-Europian (IE) base *ueid-, *weid-, *wid-; *uoida-, *woid-. In the form of Perfect  the Indo-European base *ueid-, *weid- ‘to see’ looked  like *uoida, *woid- and  meant ‘I saw’ hence developed the meaning "to know", which has spread to other forms. We meet such an analogy in Old Slavonic (OS) where the verb вѣєдѣєти ‘to know’ is formed on the base of видѣти ‘to see’ in the same way.
2) The OE āӡan and the OHG eigun with the meaning ‘to have, to possess’ go back to the IE base *oik/ik which evidently meant ‘to have authority’. ‘Had authority’ means ‘possessed by right’ and therefore ‘owned’ – probably it is a real history of this preterite-present verb.
It is worth mentioning that the verb got intense developing only in English, where it on the ancient stage formed the most branchy paradigm and on the middle stage acquired the new meaning of obligation and on the new stage produces three autonomous verbs (owe, own, ought), joining the old meaning with the new. By contrast, in German it has remained only as an adjective eigun ‘own’ and began to be replaced with habbȇn (modern haben) forming the richer paradigm. 
Such semantic transformation is also of interest. ‘To have’ means ‘to own, to use what we have’,  i.e. the content of the verb habbȇn was originally associated with wealth and prosperity, sense of ownership rather than with the possession of power. In the Russian language, as in other Slavic languages, verbs with similar semantics are not traced. In Russian historically ‘to have authority’ means to have ‘the right, power, will over sth., freedom of actions and orders, to manage’. ‘To own’ means ‘to possess, to rule, to have in one’s property, to have the right to call sth. one’s own’ [Dahl , 1998]. Consequently, sovereign possession of something does not imply obligation, power seems to be something absolute, requiring no duties. This perception of the word under consideration is clearly seen in Russian history. Could this be a key to a distorted understanding of power in Russia? 
3) The OE dūӡan and the OHG toug ‘to be goos for sth.’ trace to the IE base *dheugh ‘to press, to hit the target’. The OS дѧгъ goes back to the same base. So probably ‘hit the target’ or ‘bore the pressure’ equal ‘became useful’, ‘is good’ both in the German and the Slavonic languages.
4) The OE unnan ‘to grant’ in the English version (with prefixes: ӡeunnan ‘to wish good’ and ofunnan ‘to wish evil’) and the OHG giunnan ‘to envy’ in German one. Eduard Prokosh [Prokosh, 1954] adds the meaning ‘to love, to patronize’ because he claims the German root an-, to which goes back the verb, is related to the Latin animus ‘spirit, soul, intelligence’. According to this version, the verb originally meant ‘to give sb. one’s heart/mind’ and hence the new meanings occur.
5) The OE cunnan and the OHG kunnan ‘to know, to be able to’ the IE base *ĝn-nǝ-ḿo(s) ‘to know, to get to know’. Thus, the etymologic chain looks like ‘learned’>’knows how to do’, ‘has got to know’>’is able to’. But this fragile ancient meaning of ability bores only mental character, not physical yet. But in Russian it was not going to develop the latter – probably, in contrast to popular in Russia expression “Knowledge - is power”, possession of knowledge in our country has not historically equated with power.
6) The OE ϸurfan and the OHG durfan ‘to need’ can trace back to the IE *terp in negative, i.e. ‘not to be satisfied’. It naturally produces the value ‘to need’. But here is another version connecting the etymology to the Slavonic base with the meaning ‘to endure, to grow numb’ that is close to ‘to need’ as well. 
7) The OE durran and the OHG gitar ‘to dare’ trace to *dhereĝh-, *dhers-, *dhors-, *dhfs- ‘to hold fast’. ‘Demonstrated strength’ means ‘became brave’, in all likelihood. It is related to the Russian derzkiy
8) The OE munan ‘to remember’. The exact preterite-present equivalent in German is not found, but there is the weak verb manȏn/manȇ with the similar meaning. The verbs are related to the IE *men- ‘to believe’ so the semantic chain is ‘to believe’>’to remember, to have an opinion’
9)  The EO sceolan and the OHG sculan ‘to have to’ are traced back to *skel-, skol-, *skl with the general value ‘to make a mistake’. So, ‘I did harm’>’I owe a debt’>’I have to do sth’. It is not a coincidence that in Russian the word ‘dolg’ means both material and mental obligation.
10) The OE ӡenēah and the OHG ginah ‘to be enough’ go back to the German base *nōh-, *nah- which is by-turn related to the IE *(е)nеk ‘to achieve’. ‘I have achieved’>’I have enough of it’. In Russian, for example, dostatochno and dostavat’ are realized as closely-related words.
11) The OE maӡan and the OHG magan ‘to be able to’ trace to *māgh-, *mǝgh- with the same meaning and are related to the synonymous SO могѧ.
12) The OE mōt and the OHG muozzan with a very rich list of meanings. The most justified version relates the verbs to the polysemantic IE base *med- ‘to correct, to think, to take care, to measure’. All this can be integrated into the value ‘well-considered obligation’ (it actually corresponds to must and müssen) [Benvenist E., 1995] However, the Russian verb has not developed this meaning, but such a verb exists in the Ukraine. 
13) The OE willan and the OHG wellen ‘to want’ go back to the optative mood of the IE base *uel-, *uol- ‘to want, to prefer’ and are related to the OS волити with the same meaning.

4.2. The middle stage (the end of XI – the end of XV)
1) The Middle English (ME) witen and the Middle High German (MHG) wizzen. Both the English and the German word preserve the main meaning “to know”. 
At the same time the OE verb lost features peculiar to preterite-present verbs. It can be illustrated by the following example where the verb witen is used after another preterite-present verb. 
I must have known he was of Dertemouthe.
As for the German verb, it lost characteristic features only partially – in this example it is used as a main verb.
He let us cognize good and evil, cold and hot, sour and sweet in our five sins: fire and water, take whatever you want.

2) The ME owe, ought and the MHG adjective eigun. The meaning of obligation accrues to the previous ‘to possess’ with the particle to [Brunner K., 2003]. 
Remarkably, only in English this verb developed the value of obligation, at first in conjunction with the infinitives of purpose, thereby connecting the possession of power to certain (moral) debt. A striking example of such the relationship between moral duty and authority is that the interpretation of absolute power as a service lasts up to these days. It is enough to recall the future Queen Elizabeth II, addressing to the people: “I am here to serve”. In MHG the closely-related preterite-present verb becomes obsolete. 
I was always surprise for me that if he belongs to you and you have such mastery over us, why does he linger with the strangles to you.
The fact that a fragmented and heterogeneous but united by the language nation in the Middle Ages finally gave preference to the verb with the main value ‘to use what you possess’ probably says about the priority of property over ‘power for power's sake’. In this case, the verb haben ‘have’ also develops the meaning of obligation.

3) The ME dowen and the MHG tugen (tügen) ‘to be good for sth.’ preserve their meaning on the middle stage.

4) The ME unnen ‘to grant’ and the MHG gunnen (günnen) ‘to love, not to envy’. No semantic changes founded on this stage.

5) The ME cunnen and the MHG kunnen (künnen). Only from this time the verbs develop the more physical meaning in addition to the mental. But in English the verb and particularly its Past Participle was still used in the original meaning ‘to know’. 
Nevertheless, cunnen if gradually replacing the verbs mowen and mot. For example:
The MHG kunnen preserves the original meaning as well but not only in in the form of Past Participle
However, in the majority of cases the MHG verb was used as a modal in the meaning ‘to be able to’ (including physically):
Whatever somebody wanted, he could not say that in this world he saw something more beautiful. 

6) The ME tharf and the MHG dürfen ‘to need’. The English verb is replaced with needen, which takes over some features of preterite-present verbs and eventually becomes need. The German verb is left at rest.

7) The ME durren and the MHG turren (türren) get the status of modals preserving the meaning ‘to dare’.

8) The ME shal (PRS-3SG) and the MHG scholn (suln, süln). The English verb is used in the forms shall, should only as a modal for marking necessity, obligation or order.
It is Brunner’s [Brunner, 1942] opinion that because of the weakening of lexical meaning shall is used in an analytic construction expressing the future even more frequently than will. 
Like the English counterpart, the MHG verb is used in such descriptive constructions. But the German peculiarity on the middle stage is so-called modal future forming by means of special modals sollen and wollen (and according to Zhirmunskiy [Zhirmunskiy, 1939], the first type is much more common):
As we see, the value of obligation remains, so it is not possible to say about the complete loss of lexical meaning in this case.

9) In spite of the fact that preterite-present verbs with the meaning ‘to be enough’ are absent on the middle stage, we meet synonymous adverbs and adjectives: the ME ynough and enow and the MHG genouc.

10) The ME mowen and the MHG mugen face significant semantic transformations. The first narrowed his value and lost some functions, for instance, the designation of physical and mental abilities to cunnen and acquired the meaning ‘to have an opportunity’. 
Mugen develops from its negative forms the meaning ’to love’. This metamorphosis was probably like that: ‘to be not able to’>’not to like’, and then the meaning was shifted on the positive forms.

11) The ME mot and the MHG müzen. The English verb has the number of meanings on the middle stage. For example, Skeat [Skeat, 1958] extracts ‘to be able, may, can, to be free to’ and Brunner (Brunner, 1942) says that the main value of the verb is ‘to be allowed to’. But these hypotheses are ruined during translating of Byron poems, for example. 
The German verb has exactly the same destiny.
12) The ME willen and the MHG wellen (wollen) become modals with the meaning of will expression. Here is the opinion that they were not modal verbs because they took part in forming of future times. But the value of desire presupposes the appeal to the future.

4.3. The new stage (the end of XV – XIX)
1) The ME witan ‘to know’ now remains as an infinitive used in combination with to wit ‘namely’, in the form of the adjective unwitting ‘unknowing, random’ and in the expression “God wot” (the latter emphasises the importance of visual aspect in contrast to “God knows”)
Related are: the noun wit, the verb wis ‘to know’ and iwis, ywis “certainly” (the forms of different degrees of archaism). Misspelling and misinterpretation (“i wis, y wis” ‘I know’) says again about the relation to witan.
The MHG wissen develops the extra meaning of können ‘can’ but semantic doubling does not occur because wissen means knowledge based on visual experience and können – on taking over else’s experience. The noun Weise relates to wissen
2) The ME owe, oughte ‘to possess’ and the MHG adjective eigen.
Owe in the old meaning is replaced with own (formed from the adjective own) and remains with the meaning ‘to have to’. But in some context we can notice the shades of ‘to possess’
It's а game that the English team ought to win (it has some qualities => it has to win)
There ought to be a ban on cigarette propaganda (on the one hand – obligation, on the other – having some mechanism of realisation of the ban)
You ought to have listened to the warnings (critics based on having an opportunity to do sth in a proper way then)
Now we mostly use should in such cases.
The MHG eigen exists in the original meaning but adds pathos (one of the main indicators of modality):
etwas zu eigen haben, etwas sein eigen nennen
3) The ME dowen and the MHG tugen/tügen ‘to be good for’
The former exists only as archaic or ironic doughty ‘suitable’ (compare to the Russian duzhiy with the similar meaning) 
The latter preserves modal meaning (criticism) only in negative utterances:
Das taugt zu nichts - That won’t do.
Also can express normative modality:
Schwere Speisen taugen nicht für Kranke – The sick are forbidden to eat heavy food.
4) The ME unnen and the MHG gunnen/günnen ‘to grant, not to envy, to allow’
The former is absent on the new stage. It can indicate that the meaning of granting as a phenomenon is not significant for English nation now because of its previous obligatory vivid emotional colouring.
The modern usage of the latter says about the preservation of its old meaning (sometimes with a bit of stylistic change)
5) The ME cunnen loses the meaning ‘can’. But there is the adjective cunning ‘resourceful’.  Besides, can takes over meanings of may partially, and they are different not by semantics but by the situations of usage. In addition to the acquisition of new meanings (expressing of objective possibility, ability, moral right, request, allowance, offer, presupposition, doubt) can is able to strengthen the emotional colouring of utterances. 
The MHG verb kunnen preserves the old meaning and adds ‘to have an opportunity’. Besides, the usage of this verb in the meaning ‘to know’ can weaken its modal characteristics because on the new stage knowledge is perceived as a store in general – it is a kind of prognosis.
6) The ME tharf and the MHG dürfen ‘to need’
The former is replaced with the weak verb needen, and need became closer to must by meaning.
The latter adds ‘to be able’, ‘to dare’ (instead of turren), ‘to have a right’, ‘to be allowed’ (for the last sense, supposedly, the semantic chain looks like this: not to be required=>not to be allowed=>to be allowed), is used also for expressing presupposition.
7) The ME durren and the MHG turren/türren
The former is used both as a modal and a notional verb.
The latter is no longer in use.
8) The ME s(c)hal and the MHG soln/scholn/süln ‘to have to, must’
The former acquires the meaning of asking for instructions, criticism and some other senses thereby completely separating from should.
The MHG verb develops exactly this way.
In semantics of modern shall and sollen duty is perceived as obligation defined by another subject.
9) The ME muwe(n)/ mowe(n) and the MHG mugen/ mu(e)gen ‘to have an opportunity’.
In English it has the meanings of presupposition, probability, doubt, require, allowance, regard, obligation. The form might is used in not enough different senses to separate from may: in fact, it simply sounds less strong.
In German mögen has the meaning ‘to like’ as the fundamental.
Both may and mögen are used for expressing concession, desire, indirect order, threat.
Möge kоттеп, was da will. - Соте what may.
Sag ihm, er möge (möchte) schneller nach Наше коттеп. –Tell him to come home quicker.
Möge deine Reise gliicklich verlaufen! — Let your travel be successful!
Desire vs. Threat: Möge er doch коттеп! - Möge er коттеп! 
Besides, in German möсhte as an optative in the past acquires the meaning of the present tense:
Ich möchte rauchen. — I want to smoke.
The original meaning of mögen preserves for uncertain presupposition expression. The noun Macht ‘power’, the adverb möglich ‘ possibly’, Möglichkeit ‘possibilit’”, the verb vermögen ‘to be able to’, Vermögen ‘ability, state’.
9) The ME mot and the MHG müezen ‘can, must’.
Must loses the meaning ‘can’. It can be explained by two factors: any language tends to avoid doubling; historically must denotes duty which can go beyond abilities. But one of the aspects of this ancient sense is saved when we say about possibility with high degree of certainty.
Müssen is deprived of ‘can’ as well and preserves it only in the context of well-grounded presupposition: 
Еr muss es noch nicht gehört haben – He has not evidently heard it.
Mostly it expresses well-considered obligation.
10) The ME wille(n)/ wulle and the MHG wellen, wollen ‘to want’.
In general the former expresses will, but in some cases this meaning is erased and the verb is used in the situations of certain prognosis. 
The German wollen is exposed to grammaticalization to a smaller extent and it saves the original meaning. Even when it expresses the future the meaning of will is appreciable.

5. Discussion 
Subjective component is included in the content of all we are talking and thinking about as far as human perception of reality is deeply subjective, therefore the category of modality is always subjective, and the statement itself is always modal.
In considered languages modal verbs express internal modality which indicates the subject’s (more rarely – the object’s) attitude to the performed or being performed action, the degree of the speaker’s certainty and relation to actuality (reality/irreality). 
In the process of investigation we find interesting analogies among the languages: not only related verbs with the same meaning but also similar ways of forming some verbs in different languages hence in terms of different cultures. So the worldviews are truly close to each other.
We notice consistent processes of semantic divergence started on the ancient stage when there were just preterite-present forms with modal meanings.
For example, the English oughte develops the meaning of obligation, whereas its German counterpart falls into disuse in Old German. 
At the same time we can watch analogous mechanisms.
For instance, acquisition of the broader meaning ‘to be able’ (including physically) by the ME cunne and the MHG künnen. This process was resulted in narrowing its meaning by the ME verb mowen (to ‘to have an opportunity’, ‘to be able’ (not in physical sense). The MHG verb mügen develops the meaning ‘to like’ preserving ‘to be able’ on the base of negative forms.
Another curious finding is the verbs’ ability to change classes.
For example, the ME wite and MHG wizzen ‘to know’ start to be used as notional verbs even in spite of preservation of some features of the preterite-present group.
All these patterns allow the understanding of fundamental laws of language evolution. The verbs which were to go out of usage were in stagnation for some time while the rest demonstrated intense semantic development. In the case if semantics did not cope with doubling, pragmatics emphasised the shades of meanings. 
On the new stage, because of grammaticalization, some verbs had their lexical meanings darkened. But there was no complete loss of the autonomous sense thanks to the interference of stylistics, which is certainly justifiable because of subjective character of modality. 
Furthermore, we can explain the most important tendencies and processes resulted in our current usage of modals. Thus, my own observations show in English the meanings of will and physical ability are the most frequent (in contrast: ought has the smallest frequency in British National corpus) and also English-speakers give preference to subjunctive forms, which is confirmed all the history of English. 
In contrast to this statistics, in German the most frequent modals’ meanings express possibility and various kinds of obligation, although on the ancient stage will and desire dominated. But this change can be explained by objective historical events.
By and large, modals usage properly reflects mentalities.
Comparing the data of Russian, English and German it is possible to state that modality expression in Russian is closer to it in German. The matter is that proportions of synonymous modals usage in these languages are equal while English-to-Russian correspondence is rather rare.
Bearing in mind the importance of English in modern world, we can try to make some prediction. We have every reason to believe that dürfen will make way for können likewise the process of meanings interchange between can and may. Wollen and mögen can increase their usage due to the meanings of will and desire. As a result of democratization, the Russian adverb nel’zya can be replaced with some softened forms – for instance, the verbs pozvolat’ and sledovat’.
