Cognitive Corpus Linguistics : five points of debate on current theory and methodology by Arppe, Gilquin, Glynn, Hilpert and Zeschel


This article was printed in 2010 by Edinburgh University Press. The interesting thing is that the authors are from different countries such as : Finland, Belgium, Sweden, Germany and Denmark. It is obvious that the article presents a study on cognitive linguistics, which is a wide part of linguistics overall.


Unfortunately the task was to read some abstracts from the article, so it seems to be a bit difficult to summarise. First of all, the introduction in the article begins with an interesting sentence : “Within cognitive linguistics, there is an increasing awareness that the study of linguistic phenomena needs to be grounded in usage.” It sounds quite reasonable, because  theory isn't enough and some applied science is also needed. The authors claim that cognitive corpus has developed a range of methods, but there are few unresolved problems. So why these problems exist? Is it because of lack of knowledge or because of neglected practical usage?


Cognitive linguistics links cognition with actual usage events. The authors' assumption is that corpora should not only contain information of what is likely or not to be repeated in the language, but also make it possible to identify those items. For modern society it is not available, maybe in several years scientists will make a breakthrough and all the corpora data will be more easy to use.  But still, Zeschel and Gilquin argue about corpora, frequency and saliency. It is good that they have sophisticated arguments which support their ideas. The outlook, however, does not summarise their thoughts, it just shows some assumptions of what should be made in the future. The authors depend on the future, they think that maybe humans will make something with corpora, and then all the linguists will be able to do efficient researches. 


The whole article is extremely boring and dull. Even since the first pages the reader feels depressed and unable to understand anything. The number of indecipherable sentences is overwhelming. This article is absolutely for academic purpose. No one will read it in their leisure time. Also, the general idea is so limited, that makes this text suitable only for people who are interested in cognitive linguistics. But they already know that this kind of problem exists, so there is no need for them to read this paper.


To draw a conclusion, the article is extremely specific. It might be suitable for linguists or someone who are interested in linguistics. High level of English is strongly appreciated in addition to a great amount of spare time. Every person has it own preferences, so maybe there is someone who enjoyed reading this article.
