Arppe A., Gilquin G., Glynn D., Hilpert M., Zeschel A. 
(2010) 
Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology          Corpora Vol 5 (1): 1-27 Edinburgh University Press, 2010

Some time ago an increasing awareness appeared that research in cognitive linguistics should be based on authentic language use. Nowadays more and more studies turn to corpora as a source of data. The group of authors who wrote the article Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology tries to investigate to what extent it is possible to use corpus data in cognitive linguistics. According to the structure of the article it is aimed mostly at people who work in the field of cognitive linguistics to solve an issue of the usage of corpora in their studies.

The authors of the article suggest their own opinion on the subject and discuss all the advantages and disadvantages of using corpora. From the very beginning the authors stress that there are a lot of problems connected with the use of corpus data that still are to be solved. Nevertheless, they add that the field of corpus based cognitive linguistics is growing and becoming self-aware and it is essential for cognitive linguistics to integrate different types of evidence. The authors then state another issue connected to frequency, salience and cognition. In this section the first idea is introduced by Gaëtanelle Gilquin, who claims that corpus analysis cannot be used as a shortcut to cognition. She explains that we are not able to fully converge text frequency and cognitive salience and “corpora cannot stand in for experimental work”.

In the next section Arne Zeschel advocates a slightly different idea that “corpus linguistics does not attempt to stand in for experimental work”. Prototypicality is not the best way to see if corpora is relevant for cognitive linguistic research, so he suggests to use input frequency and co-occurrence as signs for indicating the psychological status of a structure given.

The authors conclude the article by touching upon a subject of the future of cognitive linguistics and mentioning some points that will intensify the development of cognitive corpus linguistics.

The most outstanding features of the article are its structure and the intention of the authors to promote a critical discussion on the issue. The paper itself constitutes some kind of a dialog between the authors, each of whom first submits an argument for discussion and then someone else offers a critical response to it. Moreover, all the advantages and disadvantages of the issue are taken up and comprehensively discussed. 

Leaving aside all the positive features of the article, let us move to its weaknesses. The article should have probably benefited from more unsophisticated and comprehensible language, as the audience also includes non-native speakers of English. Furthermore, this article was published in the journal “Corpora”, which means that it is deviated to corpus linguistics. That is why it would be difficult for people who do not work in the sphere of corpus or cognitive linguistics to penetrate into the matter. The authors also did not fully uncover the notions they used in the discussion, such as salience, prototypicality and cognitive linguistics itself, making made it hard for the reader to find the definitions, scattered over the article. 

However, despite the criticisms mentioned above, we cannot mark out that this article undoubtedly makes a significant contribution to the field of cognitive linguistics. The authors have considered all the sides of the stated problem and suggested possible disadvantages of some ways of solving it. 
