Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert, and Arne Zeschel.
“Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology”.
Corpora, vol. 5 (1): 1-27.
Edinburgh University Press, 2010
 
​In the article “Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology” the group of scientists (Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert, and Arne Zeschel) explores different points of view on the following issue: using corpus-based methodologies (corpora is considered as a source of data) and problems which are associated with it. Authors pick out several problems which they prefer to discuss: “1) converging evidence from corpora and experimentation; 2) whether corpora mirror psychological reality; 3) the theoretical value of corpus linguistic studies of “alternations”; 4) the relation of corpus linguistics and grammatically judgements; 5) the nature of explanations in cognitive corpus linguistics”. On the whole, in this article scientists discuss advantages and disadvantages of using corpora. 
 
​From the very outset authors claim that there are a lot of problems which are connected with using corpora: its' interaction with other sources of data and indirection of off-line linguistic data. However, they emphasize that these data have a high quality. Then the authors try to think out the reservations under which corpus data may be used in cognitive linguistics.

​The article is organised like a dialog. There are some statements and assumptions. The authors weigh in with arguments for and against it. The readers can get to know different points of view on these issues.

Moreover, the readers can see debates among authors. Of course, each of them has his/her own opinion. For instance,  Gaëtanelle Gilquin and Arne Zeschel both think that “corpora cannot stand in for experimental work”, but they have different argumentation.  Gaëtanelle Gilquin says that there are some concepts that may be used to test the relevance of text frequency to cognitive phenomena, one of them is prototypicality. However,  Arne Zeschel claims that “measures of “prototypicality” may not provide the best yardstick to assess the relevance of corpora to cognitive linguistic research”.  
In the upshot, the authors conclude that corpora Is not yet a reliable source of data which can be used for cognitive linguistics' aims. They still believe that with some “improvements” corpora can become a good method for linguists.

​Leaving aside the positive developments which these authors' discussion added to our knowledge of advantages and disadvantages of using corpora there are several criticisms which can be levelled at this work. It's rather hard to understand this article because of its' unusual structure. There are a lot of references and opinions of all authors (and other scientists). Moreover, readers can find more questions than answers in this work.
 
​Despite the above criticisms, this article is very interesting. It's a kind of challenge to think over  these problems. There are examples from other articles which can be interesting for inquisitive people.

To sum up, I want to say, that this article can be interesting and useful for people, who are keen on linguistics, if they are not the professionals. 






