Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert, Arne Zeschel (2010). Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology. Corpora, Vol. 5 (1), 1–27.


Earlier linguists in their research used to look up for the data they needed manually. This prolonged the time they spent on work. Nowadays the problem is avoided due to invention of linguistic corpus. It is a common and practical tool, widely spread among scholars. Still, not all the branches of linguistic sciences make use of the corpus. For instance, it is so for cognitive linguistics.

The main methodology of cognitive linguistics is traditionally based on experimental data, as it seems authentic. In contrast, the corpus data may be considered as indirect, although it is of high quality. This is why the question whether cognitive linguistics should use or not corpus in a research arises. In the article “Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology” Antti Arppe et al. discuss the problem.

More specifically, in the article authors discuss whether the statistical data collected from corpus can be compared to the one collected during experiments. Each of the authors give their opinion on the issue, providing examples from their experience of work with corpus. At the end they all agree on using corpus, but as a supplementary and not the main tool.

The article is written after the workshop in which authors took part. As a consequence, the style is quite unusual and differs from what readers may be used to. The language of the article is also pretty specific and even complicated. All of this makes understanding of the article difficult, but it cannot be viewed as its drawback.
Another problem readers encounter is that the subject itself is specific. The audience of the Corpora magazine supposedly knows a lot about corpus linguistics, and yet this knowledge may be not enough to understand the article, as they may be not common with some of the cognitive linguistics’ terms. Even though several of them are explained, authors should provide examples.

Even though the article appears difficult for unprepared readers, it serves its purpose well. The authors say that they wanted to entail further discussions of the issue. The style is well chosen, each scholar’s opinion is clear, open questions are thought-provoking.

To conclude, this article is an example of complicated, and yet interesting paper. It is feasible that knowledgeable and concerned readers would enjoy the article.
