Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert, and Arne Zeschel. 2010. Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology. Corpora, 5 (1), 1 – 27.

Corpora searching is one of the most frequently used methods of linguistic investigation. Recently, the development of cognitive linguistics led to the development of Cognitive Corpus Linguistics as one of the main methods of receiving data. Although many linguists claim corpus data is not that useful in cognitive field.

In this article, "Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology" by Antti Arppe et al. five linguists have a written debate about whether the corpora data is essential in cognitive linguistics or it can be only used as an additional source of information or is it even useful. According to a popular belief, stated in the introduction to this article, and despite the growth of using corpora as the main source of information, off-line texts are not useful due to the fact that its using makes researches indirect. 

Gaëtanelle Gilquin, one of the authors of this article, is very explicit and states that corpora can't be used in experimental work, which is also a big part of cognitive linguistics. She supports her point of view by stating that the most cognitively salient member of any linguistic category, or a prototype, does not always match the most frequently used member in corpora. As an example, Gilquin states that in corpora the most frequent usage of the verb 'give' is metaphorical while cognitively this verb is associated with 'handing over'.

On the other hand, Arne Zeschel, the other co-author of the article or, as the authors refer to it, a workshop states that corpora 'don’t attempt to stand in for experimental work'. He complains about prototypicality which Gilquin uses as the main argument and suggests that it’s better not to treat prototypicality as a cognitive phenomenon but use some other features like frequency and other statistical data that can be given by the usage of the corpora.

Despite the fact that the two authors seem to be on the two sides of barricades, they agree with the notion that corpora should be more person-related to be used in researches in cognitive linguistics field.

Nevertheless, as the outlook of this work shows, the opposition of five great minds led to one conclusion that stated 'three simple things' Cognitive Corpus Linguistics should do: be a little more person-related, be more specific about things in cognitive linguistics corpora can find answers to and, finally, let the real benefits of corpora be shown. 

The main benefit of the article is that it is, as I stated before, a workshop. The five authors conduct a dialogue, each stating his or her personal point of view. The reader can compare five different notions and find the pros and cons in every one of them.

There are also some flaws in this workshop. The main is that the language of the article is sometimes really complex and can lead to losing the point. Although the atmosphere is really tense and it looks like the authors are about to have a fight and that’s why, I think, the conclusion, despite its simplicity, is very slack and turned aside.

However, the article is no doubt informative and really important as a part of studying the field of cognitive linguistics.  
