Arppe A.,  GilquinG., Glynn D., Hilpert M., Zeschel A.(2010). Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology. Corpora, 5(1), 1-27.

The purpose of this critique is to review the article “Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology” written by Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert, and Arne Zeschel. They discuss a number of theoretical and methodological problems concerned with corpus-based research of cognitive linguistics. It is the scientific article that can be interesting generally for linguists.

The article is divided into seven sections excepting abstract and references. The first section is introduction. The following sections are devoted to five points of debate on the main topic. In the last section we can find an outlook.

First, in abstract the authors state that using corpus for research on cognitive linguistics has both advantages and drawbacks. On the one hand, corpus tools have become more sophisticated. On the other hand, the data derived from corpus-based research can be indirect. Then the authors list the number of topics discussed in the article. They emphasize below that they do not aim to solve all issues or to cover all aspects. Conversely, they strive to inspire their readers for a future reaction.

In the introduction part the authors broaden and clarify their abstract. In the first paragraph, in addition to the information given above, the concept of Cognitive Corpus Linguistics is identified. Next, it is indicated that to study cognitive linguistics researchers should use different sourses of data including corpus and experimental evidences and do it in an appropriate and similarly way. In the end, the authors provide some information about the story of writing this work.

In the second section the authors discuss “converging evidence from corpora and experimentation” . In the third section they debate “whether corpora mirror psychological reality” . In the first place, there is a claim that corpus data is not the most efficient means to study cognitive linguistics. This assumption is based on the fact that corpus frequency of some linguistic phenomena generally does not coincide with salience (prototypicality) of the same phenomena. In the second place, it is argued that basically there are no reasons why experimental psychological data should be superior to corpus findings. In the fourth, fifth and sixth sections “the theoretical value of corpus linguistic studies of ‘alternations”, “the relation of corpus linguistics and grammaticality judgments” and “the nature of explanations in cognitive corpus linguistics” are discussed, respectively. 


	Finally, in outlook the main disadvantages of current corpus-based methods are summarized. Specifically, corpus cognitive linguists focus on form, may seem to deny subjectivity and underestimate intuition-based research. In the last paragraph the authors provide some prospects and advices for future development of the Cognitive Corpus Linguistics.


The authors present a significant discussion concerning usefulness and at the same time imperfection of corpus-based methodology in relation to cognitive linguistic research. This article can be beneficial for corpus linguists because it illuminates strong and weak aspects of Cognitive Corpus Linguistics and advices the following most favourable directions of work. More than that, the authors provide strong arguments based on scientific researches and facts and a majority of their statements has references. Also, we can find an original dialogical shape of some sections, which makes the article inspiring and thought-provoking. 


Despite of the apparent advantages of this article, it suffers from a number of limitations. First of all, it would be easier to perceive information if the structure of sentences had been less impenetrable and tangled. In many cases the authors could have written two or three sentences instead of one. Furthermore, the article appears difficult to understand because there are a few examples in this large theoretical jargonized text. If it had had more examples and definitions, more interested people could read it without exertion. 


In conclusion, despite the above criticisms, this article takes an important place in the field of Cognitive Corpus Linguistics. Undoubtedly, it provides convincing and reliable information and cognitive corpus linguists can find it challenging and inspiring because it suggests a wide range of ideas for a future research. 
