Arppe, Antti, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert, Arne Zeschel. Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology. In: Corpora Vol 5 (1): 1–27. Edinburgh University Press, 2010.

The increasing influence of corpus methods in modern linguistics raises many questions about the applicability of these methods in particular linguistic fields. In the article “Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology” a team of authors (Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert, Arne Zeschel) considers the possibilities and justifiability of corpus methods in cognitive linguistics. We are going to review this article and consider its strengths and weaknesses.

The structure of the article resembles a dialog. Each of the authors states their opinion on the subject and then presents the argumentation. The authors discuss various issues concerning cognitive corpus linguistics. Firstly, the possibility of converging evidence and using multi-methodological approaches is analyzed. The authors bring up the topic of methodological monism in linguistics and argue whether using corpus data along with experimental data can be a solution to this problem and whether different kinds of data are comparable. Secondly, the authors talk over the matching of cognitive concepts and entities in corpus data. In the authors’ view, it is arguable that cognitive realities are somehow imprinted in corpus data, and a straightforward parallel between the frequency of some item in the corpus and the salience of that item in cognition cannot be drawn. Thirdly, the authors summarize their arguments and try to define to what extent corpus methods are appropriate for cognitive linguistics and what can be done in order to improve the applicability of corpus data to cognitive linguistics research problems.

The intended audience of the article is experienced corpus linguists, and this determines the way in which the arguments are presented. As we are not professional corpus linguists, we cannot fully comprehend the plausibility of the authors’ ideas and argumentation. However, we will try to review the paper from the point of view of a person exposed to linguistics, but not very proficient in it.

One of the strong points of the article is its intention to provoke a discussion. The purpose of the article is to observe different views about using corpus methods in cognitive linguistics and to encourage readers to think about various sides of the problem, and the article brilliantly manages to achieve its aim. Indeed, it raises as many questions as it answers, and a reader cannot remain indifferent to the discussed problems. What’s more, the article presents in a clear and comprehensible way the state-of-arts in linguistic methodology and by this gives to the readers a possibility to reconsider the appropriateness of their own research methods with regard to their linguistic field.

Despite the good and plausible ideas stated by the authors, their work suffers from a number of limitations. Firstly, the article would have significantly benefited if its language had been simpler and thus more comprehensible. The audience of the article includes people whose native language is not English, and this should have been taken into consideration by the authors who sometimes use very complex and tangled syntactic structures. Secondly, the paper was published in a journal dedicated to corpus linguistics, and this means that the readers may not be experienced in the peculiarities of cognitive linguistics. In our opinion, the definitions related to the key concepts in cognitive linguistics, such as salience, prototypicality, alternation, should have been stated explicitly before coming to the alanysis. The authors define these concepts by the way of argumentation, and this makes it hard for the reader to find the definitions in the text and to keep up with the authors’ thought.

Despite the disadvantages mentioned above, the article is, unarguably, significantly contributes to the field of linguistic methodology. It raises important questions and provokes its readers to think about the possible answers, which is very important as many linguists do not question the validity of their results. 
