Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology. Antti Arppe, GaСtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert and Arne Zeschel. Corpora 2010 Vol. 5 (1): 1–27

The appearance of corpus technologies opened a new era for the linguistic research: the possibilities for collecting data that they provide are difficult to contest. While corpus appears nowadays to be the fastest way to collect plentiful data and its methodologies are constantly developing, its usage rises more and more questions about the way the results should be treated within every given investigation. This paper presents a meta-discussion on corpus linguistics and specifically on whether this method is applicable to congitive studies. The discussion was held in the Freiburg Institute for Advanced Studies (FRIAS) by a panel of cognitively orientated corpus linguists
in October 2008, and the dialogical structure of the paper reflects the shape of the workshop itself.
	The authors begin with naming the issues that they claim to be significant for the theoty and methodology of current corpus linguistics: (1) converging evidence from corpora and experimentation, (2) whether corpora mirror psychological reality, (3) the theoretical value of
corpus linguistic studies of ‘alternations’, (4) the relation of corpus linguistics and grammaticality judgments, and, lastly, (5) the nature of explanations in cognitive corpus linguistics. They address these issues afterwards in the text. In the introduction they also point out some more problems, such as corpus data being, arguably, indirect. Another problem is that corpus evidence should be converged with experimental design in order to achieve more objective results, but the communication between corpus linguists and psycholinguists is poor.
	 The section "Corpus frequencies and psychological reality" deals with three notions - text frequency, cognitive salience and psychological prototypicality - and the connection between them. G. Gilquin claims that the prototype of a category (i.e., its maximally representative member) is likely to reflect cognitive salience for the speakers of a language. The author further cites ceveral psycholinguistic experiments that demonstrate that this salience does not always coincide with text frequency and makes a conclusion that corpora should hardly be used in cognitive studies at all. A. Zeschel raises an objection to this claim: according to him, there is no reason to consider prototypicality the best measure for psychological reality. He points out the vagueness of the notion of prototype itself and suggests choosing a more suitable corpus for the research in question instead of total rejection of the method. 
	This discussion might seem confusing to the readers: one could question the usefulness of such a structure, when simply a dialogue is presented and there is no clear position established between the claims of both authors. The style of both its parts also does not make it easier to grasp the ideas. However, the section written by Zeschel appears to be far more plausible. Indeed, the notion of prototype, as it is presented by Gilquin, is unclear and, moreover, it seems that it cannot be linguospecific, while any corpus data mirrors the cognitive strusture specific for the language given.
	As a conclusion, tha authors draw the audience's attention to the measures they claim to be necessary to take so that corpus linguistics could become the mainstream in cognitive linguistics: first, the scholars should avoid overestimating this method. But most importantly, it should be established how to apply corpus data to the research questions specific for cognitive linguistics and the real benefits of this method should be stressed. 
	The purpose of the article is not to resolve the treated issues, but to draw the attention of the linguistic society to them and to encourage further discussion. This purpose is definitely achieved: though the position of every author towards every question risen is not always clear, the paper gives a lot to think about. It seems especially useful for the scholars who are used to resort to corpora with questions of any kind without considering whether this method is adequate for the research and whether the results can be used directly. The point about converging evidence from different methods can also never be stressed enough. 
	
