Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert, and Arne Zeschel. 2010. Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology. 

Corpora are relevant to all the main topics of interest in cognitive linguistics: metaphor, polysemy, synonymy, prototypes. Each of these offer suggestions about which methods of analysis could be profitably used with available corpora to explore them in future.

This article shows the results of the corpus linguists team's workshop in Freiburg in 2008. 

"Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology" represents the discussion in the form of dialogues between Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert, and Arne Zeschel. 

The main aim of the discussion is the usage of corpora for cognitive linguistic research.

This is a review, which pay attention on the third part of the article, where the team compare the corpus frequency with psychological reality.

The authors are divided into those, who supports the corpus data and those, who is against.

On the one hand, Gaëtanelle Gilquin says: 'A naive mapping of raw text frequency to cognitive salience is likely to fail. Corpora cannot stand in for experimental work'. In her opinion, the corpus is doubtful source for cognitive linguistic and it could be better to go through laborious process of experimentation. She gives an example: the prototypical meaning of the verb 'to give' is 'handing over' but according to corpora the most frequent is metaphorical meaning ('give a smile'). To conclude her words, it should be says that the most frequency object and his prototype are not the same things.

On the other hand, Arne Zeschel defends the corpora: 'Asking for psychological reality is not the same as asking for prototypicality, and corpus linguistics does not attempt to stand in for experimental work'. He thinks that the main criteria of research are frequency and salience('relative accessibility of different senses of a polysemous word in zero-context sentence production task'). He affirms, that different results in salience and frequency are quite natural.

To sum up, the discussion between authors gives to understand, that there are too many questions, which are not solve yet. They raise the important issue, that there are many area in corpora, which should be examined and sometimes scientists suggest their way of solution. Despite of hard understandably words, lack of examples, tangled sentences, which could be shortened, the article by linguistics discovers very interesting way to explore the cognitive linguistics with corpora methology
