Arppe, Antti, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert, Arne Zeschel.
Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology.
In: Corpora Vol 5 (1): 1–27.
Edinburgh University Press, 2010.

The corpus technology has made a descent progress recently. The possibilities of using these technologies for linguistic research have risen as well. Consequently, there has been quite a debate on how do we use them, are they applicable or not in different fields etc. The reviewed article presents an example of such debate, presumably addressed to people with a solid background in the fields of cognitive and corpus linguistics, who are used to participating in such discussions and reading about the subject.

The article is set as a dialogue, with two participants, Gaëtanelle Gilquin and Arne Zeschel, advocating two different opinions about the corpora usability in cognitive language studies. The main problem is: corpus data are believed to be too obscure and short of required data, so they cannot be directly used in cognitive studies. Gaëtanelle Gilquin, a French linguist well established in both cognitive and corpus linguistics (see [Gilquin 2012], [Gilquin et al 2010]) states that corpora cannot contain and convey all the information about different items' "status in mind", thus are inappropriate for cognitive linguistics. She supports her point of view, comparing the result of a classic experiment with the most frequent element in the corpus and demonstrating that the corpus data are insufficient, while the information obtained via experiments fits the requirements for a cognitive study. This part is followed by Arne Zeschel's response.

Arne Zeschel admits the inability of corpus data in its current state to meet the said requirements, but holds to the opinion that corpora are not suited for that kind of work yet, so the criticism is not exactly valid. According to his words, experiments as those mentioned by Gaëtanelle Gilquin undoubtedly do a better job in gathering the material for cognitive studies. In the end, Arne Zeschel suggested that corpora can be enhanced and suited for this kind of research by expanding the range of information it contains, including some features not accounted at the moment.

Finally, the two sides come to a conclusion. It is agreed that corpora cannot be used for cognitive language research now, because they represent things we see and hear directly, while the cognitive studies concern more implicit concepts and features of the language.

The article serves as a good introduction to the problem of corpora usage. It can help its readers to see the benefits and disadvantages of corpus methods, as well as understand the requirements for a cognitive study. Although the article decently covers the topic, at times it is somewhat difficult to perceive its authors' ideas. The article could use a bit simplified language to convey its meaning in a more open way.

Altogether, this piece of writing has definitely achieved its goal, having drawn the attention to the subject and explained all its basic concepts, although it takes a certain level of knowledge and experience to read and completely perceive.
