Nowadays corpora are one of the most useful way to keep data from different researches or studies of languages' structure. Usually it contains great amount of written or audio materials with syntactical, semantical or any other marking. However, it is not really evidential whether we can use only corpora for making any conclusions. Could they have all needed information for real research?

This question is raised in the article "Cognitive Corpus Linguistics, five points of debate" in specific journal "Corpora". For sure it is not usual article but a kind of protocol of discussion at the linguistics workshop. Thus, there are showed opinions of five scholars: Antti Arppe, Gaёtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert and Arne Zeschel. In general, there is no solution for raised question as a result of debates, instead there are showed more details of each point and more questions are set.

To start with, after the brief summary of discussion authors make an introduction. They asked each other if they can use offline linguistics data for cognitive studies. There is no clear answer because corpora data sometimes is not so representative or plentiful and do not contain all needed comments.

In that case some people offer to add experimentation method to usual cognitive corpus linguistics. The authors argued if it really can help. Despite they accept experimentation as a representative source of information, they try to find way to use only corpus data. At paragraph 3 they discuss different types of common concepts in human mind, salience and stereotype. The former is used for concepts that appear in contextual-free cases, they are memory-free, reactive and spontaneous whereas the latter is used for systematizing and classifying information, that type of concepts is more based on context and more deliberate than salient concepts. In addition, the authors discussed whether corpora can reveal not stereotypic but salient concepts, which could not be found out by hand.

Putting aside summarizing content of the article, there are several reasons for criticize this work. The first and the major one is its vocabulary. It is too professional and incomprehensible for general public. Surely it cannot be judged because the article was written for specialized journal's audience. However, authors would rather add some explanations for some terms. The second one is lack of examples and concrete facts, what also make discussion more obscure.

Nevertheless, the article still remains curious and intriguing. Unusual structure with different opinions going one by one attracts audience's attention. Next, the system of pointing out arguments is absolutely clear. It allows readers to follow all points of authors' views. Moreover, all given information is up-to-date. All in all, having needed vocabulary in lexicon and being on the topic reader can really enjoy the article and get into discussion.
