Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert, and Arne Zeschel. 2010. Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology. Corpora, 5 (1), 1 – 27. 

The article “Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology” was written for the “Corpora” journal in 2010. It summarizes the results of the debate, held by a group of scientists in Freiburg. The main questions, discussed by the authors of this article, advert to the applicability of corpora methods in studying Cognitive Corpus Linguistics. Therefore, this issue is directly within the scope of interests of this journal’s readers. 

The article is organized like a dialogue, which allows the reader to follow the discussion. We can see each author's point of view, as well as its following argumentation. In this debate, several approaches to the study of Cognitive Linguistics face. The main task of the authors becomes analyzing the way linguists should interpret corpus data. 

First, Gaëtanelle Gilquin expresses her point of view. According to her opinion, “a naive mapping of raw text frequency to cognitive salience is likely to fail. Corpora cannot stand in for experimental work.” The author challenges her opinion, citing the lack of prototypicality in corpora’s data. Gilquin proposes to study a concept like prototypicality based on observable features such as historical origin, order of acquisition by children. Nonetheless, she concludes that corpus is an unreliable source of data.

 Another opinion expresses Arne Zeschel: “Asking for psychological reality is not the same as asking for prototypicality, and corpus linguistics does not attempt to stand in for experimental work.” He states that prototypicality is too broad concept. Furthermore, it would be better if corpora consist of spontaneous and casual uses. 

In conclusion, the authors agree that the corpora still need some rework and for the time being cannot be the most reliable source of data for Cognitive Linguistics. 

This article is undoubtedly the strong foundation for thought and further discussions, which is its main advantage. It is unordinary organized and is of interest of many readers. Nevertheless, it can be criticized on several counts. 
Firstly, the usage of scientific terms and the language of this article are oriented on the scholar world, basically, on the audience, whose native language is not English. Hence, it would have been better if the language of the article had been available to everyone, not only professionals. In addition, this is a journal, dedicated to Corpus Linguistics only. However, the authors have used some concepts from Cognitive Linguistics, but paid little attention to them, not taking into account the fact that there are not obvious for all of the readers. 

To summarize, this article is making a substantial contribution to Cognitive Linguistics. It is an important step towards the solution of the issues raised above. The readers, interested in material relating to corpus linguistics, are sure to find many useful ideas in this article.
