Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert and Arne Zeschel (2010). Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: ﬁve points of debate on current theory and methodology. Corpora, Vol. 5 (1): 1–27.

Cognitive linguistic research should be ideally based on the data received from authentic language use. A traditional method is to receive data experimentally. Recently a trend to use corpus-based research in cognitive linguistics has appeared. Some contradictory features of such a way of receiving research data is discussed in the article Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: ﬁve points of debate on current theory and methodology by Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert and Arne Zeschel.

The article is arranged like a discussion on five topics: (1) converging evidence from corpora and experimentation, (2) whether corpora mirror psychological reality, (3) the theoretical value of corpus linguistic studies of ‘alternations’, (4) the relation of corpus linguistics and grammaticality judgments, and (5) the nature of explanations in cognitive corpus linguistics. For each topic two opinions, each by one of the authors, are adduced.

In the introduction of the article the presence of unresolved problems concerned with the five topics is stated. In addition, it is said that there is a little overlap in the methodology between cognitive corpus linguistics and cognitive psycholinguistics. The aim of the article is to give a promotion of a critical discussion, but not a solution to the issues.

In this review I will not touch upon all the five issues. Instead I will refer only to one of them, Corpus frequencies and psychological reality. The first part of this section of the article is Corpora are no shortcut to cognition by Gaëtanelle Gilquin. She claims that text frequency should not be used as a measure of cognitive salience since the most frequent use found in corpora is not always the most prototypical one.

The second part of the section is Corpora and cognition revisited by Arne Zeschel. To his mind, ‘prototypicality’ is a heavily ambiguous term. He also claims that “it is not obvious why experimental elicitation should be assumed to provide a necessarily more valid, direct, or otherwise privileged access to factors that are relevant for linguistic cognition than induction from naturally occurring productions”.

In the outlook section of the article some reasons for the future acceptance of corpus linguistics as a fundamental method in Cognitive Linguistics are stated. The reasons include the concern of formal surface structures and objectivity. On the other hand, it is said that all the studies should be intuition-based at first. 

Despite a high-quality of coverage of the topic by the article, there can be some criticism on it. First,  the language of the article is rather tangled and sometimes impenetrable. It could have been a good idea to simplify it in some way, especially for non-native readers. Secondly, the article is published in the magazine Corpora, i.e. the main audience is supposed to be corpus linguists. However, the article seems to be more adapted for cognitive linguists, since some background in the field is needed for reeding. 

On the other hand, the article probably fulfills its aim and some further discussion will be settled. Moreover, the work is written in quite an original way. So it allows to learn the views of different specialists in the field.

To sum up, the article entails a discussion on corpus-based methodology in cognitive linguistics and can give a good coverage of it, providing it could have been more adapted for the audience.
