Cognitive linguistics is a branch of linguistics studding the correlation between the language and its speaker’s mind.
Nowadays corpora data is becoming more and more popular method of linguistic researches.
Using corpora in cognitive linguistics has resulted in creation of its new branch: cognitive corpus linguistics.
Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert and Arne Zeschel are discussing the use of using corpora data in cognitive linguistics researches in their article "Cognitive corpus linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology".


In the introduction of the article the authors present the subject of their article.
They say, that using corpora became one of the methods of examining the language like, for example, method of statistical poll.
Nowadays linguists turn to corpora as a source of data in what one might call cognitive corpus linguistics.
Cognitive corpus linguistics is studding the correlation between the language and mind of its speakers based on corpora data.
There is a lot of criticism against this new branch of science, because it has a lot of unresolved issues.


The authors give some information about history of discussing these issues.
In the third part the authors explain, why corpora data sometimes can give doubtful results in cognitive linguistics.
They provide many examples and opinions of some famous scientists.


In the conclusion the authors say that corpus data is now fully accepted as a fundamental method in cognitive linguistics because of three reasons: a focus on form, a claim to objectivity and a somewhat unbecoming arrogance.
At the same time they postulate that cognitive corpus linguistics should do three things: "first, a certain degree of humility could not hurt.
Secondly, it should be shown how corpus linguistic techniques can answer the kind of research questions that cognitive linguists are traditionally interested in.
Thirdly, the real benefits of corpus methods should be stressed." The authors are shire, that if these aspects are highlighted, the cognitive corpus linguistics can become the mainstream of cognitive linguistics.


The article has some noticeable weaknesses.
The most important of them is that the style and especially the structure of the article are extremely tangled and obscure.
The article is overloaded by technical terms and the main ideas are not clearly presented which creates difficulties for understanding by the readers who do not know a lot about cognitive linguistics and corpora.


At the same time, the authors cover many issues of cognitive corpus linguistics and evaluate opportunities of corpora data.


All in all, this article is important for people who want to understand what cognitive corpus linguistics is, and what problems and benefits do the corpora methods have.
