Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert and Arne Zeschel. Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology. Corpora 2010 Vol 5 (1): 1–27

The article is a summary of a workshop, which was held by the Freiburg Institute for Advanced Studies (FRIAS) for cognitively orientated corpus linguists in October 2008. It is published in linguistic journal “Corpora” so its main public is scholars studying corpus technologies. The paper is focused on the use of corpus data in the study of cognition and the interaction between Cognitive Corpus Linguistics and other cognitive sciences. And as it is clearly stated at the beginning, the article sets out to formulate some main issues and encourage further discussion. 

The authors of this paper identify the main issues concerning the place of corpus methods within Cognitive Linguistics. In chapters they consider advantages and disadvantages of corpus-based methodologies in comparison with experimental designs. In addition, the question of their cooperation is also brought up. Next, the authors discuss co-relation of concepts like frequency, prototypicality, salience and cognition. They provide a reader with short definitions of these concepts and give some examples of their relations supporting different points of view. In the same manner, it is argued whether corpora can be shortcut to cognition and stand in for experimental work or not. In the last section of the article there is an outlook on the future of cognitive corpus linguistics. The authors make a conclusion that it partly depends on how discussed issues will be resolved. Moreover, it can be important to consider the relation of corpus linguistics with the greater research community. 

The most significant point of the article is a structure. Like the workshop itself, the sections of this paper take a dialogical shape, hence, they reflect different opinions and allow readers to reason and make their own inferences. In each section, there are a bit historical information about the problem, hypotheses of famous linguists and also theses claimed and proved by the author. Equally important, that there are plenty of references to other studies.

Nevertheless, it can be criticized on several counts. The article intended for audience, which is definitely familiar with corpora linguistic issues but some notions of cognitive linguistics could be unclear for it. For this reason, the discussion would have been more constructive if the author had included more explanations of basic cognitive concepts. Besides, the paper could have been more reader-friendly if there had been a bit more examples. 

To conclude, cognitive corpus linguistics is an interesting field of linguistics, which has connections with different branches of this one and other sciences. And despite some small weaknesses, the authors of the article succeeded in drawing attention to this discussion and, hopefully, motivated linguists to devise more evidences in order to support or argue against considered points of view
