Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert, Arne Zeschel (2010). Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology. Corpora Vol. 5 (1): 1–27. Edinburgh University Press.

There are a lot of corpus studies nowadays. It goes without saying that this method reflects our language intuition which in everybody’s mind. But not all the scientists agree with this statement. They believe like that because not all the texts are in the corpora. So, not all the variations, words, forms and other features are presented. It means that researches based only on corpora don’t agree with the real situation. All the arguments for and against this type of investigation are written in the article «Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology» by Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert and Arne Zeschel.

First, the authors describe the problem and the existence of the two conflicting positions. Also the information about the discussion on the conference is given saying that the authors wrote everything with the reference for the scientists debating at the meeting. Secondly, different positions were described. These positions are given in a dialogue form on the workshop. One of the positions stated is discussing the nature of prototypicality. There was a big description of the salience and text frequency and their convergence which doesn’t appear to be argument for the ability of corpora to be used as «shortcut to cognition».

Personally, I believe that this article is written clearly with great arguments. The work is informative and useful for future investigations. And I think that the article would have benefited from more detailed descriptions of corpora studies. Nevertheless, it is not very important because of the audience of the article. The people to whom this work is addressed are scientists who use corpora methods. This is the reason for one more interesting detail: there is a brilliant detailed description of the experiments in other areas. I also believe that it will be better to use less complicated sentences to make the text user-friendly. Despite some small disadvantage, I think that the article is very informative and gives much food for thought.

To sum up, Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert and Arne Zeschel made a great summary of various arguments and thoughts. «Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology» is an intriguing article which makes you think about the corpora studies and its propriety. Thus I advise everybody to read it.

To sum up, G.Deutscher made a great summary of various facts to prove his position. «Does Your Language Shape How You Think?» is an intriguing article which makes you think about the language and its great influence on our minds. Thus I advise everybody to read it.


