Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn,Martin Hilpert and Arne Zeschel, 2010. Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: ﬁve points of debate on current theory and methodology. Corpora, Vol. 5 (1): 1-27.

In this review I will talk about the work devoted to the problems of using corpora for researches in cognitive linguistics.

The main point of the article is to encourage reactions to unresolved questions of using corpus-based methodologies in all areas of linguistics. The authors strongly believe that these methods, talking about cognitive linguistics, are not enough for explanation of different events in this sphere, and the researches require other various kinds of procedures.

The article has unordinary construction. It is structured in a form of the dialog, where one person lays out an argument and his opponents discuss the idea and offer critical review to it. This shape is supposed to create a semblance of readers’ participation in the discussion, in order to focus them on the great problem which needs further researches.

Talking about direct theme of the work, it is very scientific. All the information presented in the text is intended for linguists and educated people, who are able to understand the specific linguistic terms. However, the audience of the article is not just researchers of cognitive linguistics; it mainly consists of linguists from different aspects. And because of this fact many places of the work may not be understood by general unprepared public.

The argumentation presented in this work is very strong, in my opinion, despite the fact the issues for the main problem discussed may be falsifiable. Also the article contains several examples in order to help people to realize the importance of the problem and to think about it very carefully. For instance, there is an example of the connection between cognitive salience, text frequency and prototypicality. The work has a big part devoted to the question if these features are related with each other. If so, only the corpus-methodologies can be used for providing the researches in cognitive linguistics; but if the features are not connected, there is a need of providing other experiments in this area. And the opinion of the most scientists is that the relations between these conceptions are not studied well, and necessarily different types of experiments should be provided.

In my opinion, this article is well-organized and has a good argumentation. The shape of the text is quite interesting, but as for me, there should be a little bit more points. However, I may think in this way because I am not ready enough for reading such scientific works which contains a lot of difficult vocabulary and many specific terms. Despite this fact, the text should be understood by the scientists without any problems.
