Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert and Arne Zeschel. Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology. In: Corpora Vol 5 (1): 1–27. Edinburgh University Press, 2010. 

Fast development of computer technologies has not only created new science fields but also has touched almost every old one. Thanks to it, mathematicians are able to do enormous calculations and philologists have new ways of text analysis using computer programs. Technological breakthrough also brought new scientific instruments into linguistic, e.g. corpus technology. Nowadays it is hard to imagine a lecture on a linguistic topic without references to language corpuses. So, Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert and Arne Zeschel write the article “Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology”, where they discus possibilities of using corpus methods in cognitive linguistics. 

The article is written in a form of a dialogue, i.e. each of the authors makes a statement and provides argumentation. The authors hope that this will allow readers to look directly into the most vexed questions of Cognitive Corpus Linguistics. So, vide majority is not prime target of this article because many terms from cognitive linguistic field are used. Moreover, they try to inspire their readers to reactions and further discussion. So, it is clear that their audience is cognitive linguists.

In the article all of the authors agree that there are huge amounts of problems that cannot be solved easily. Let’s look through the most significant one. Firstly, the authors write about converging evidence. There are two positions on this topic in the article. The first one is Antti Arppe’s. He claims that the benefits of multi-methodological research outweigh the problems– in linguistics as much as elsewhere. (Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology, Corpora Vol 5 (1): 1–27., 2010). The second one belongs to Dylan Glynn. He agrees that converging evidence is a very significant goal, but it is too risky to compare things that linguists do not understand clearly, such as correlation between frequency and salience. Secondly, in the “Corpus frequencies and psychological reality” part of the article Gaëtanelle Gilquin and Arne Zeschel concluded that corpus linguistic does not stand for experimental work. Thirdly, in the part number 5 “Experimental use of grammaticality judgments” Martin Hilpert suggests that however, the results of experimental validation of corpus-based results have become quite sophisticated as well, but we should strive to free it from meta-linguistic tasks. (Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology, Corpora Vol 5 (1): 1–27., 2010).  Also, Antti Arppe stated that they should use ratings if they provide acceptable results.

 Finally, the authors make a conclusion that corpora should be used carefully in cognitive linguistics. Moreover, they state that corpora method can provide great support for or against certain cognitive theories.

In my opinion, this article will benefited greatly if some examples and terms were stated clearer. In spite of the authors’ opinion about the dialogue form of the article, I think it would be better without it. The unusual way of representing information made the text more tangled. Moreover, complicated phrase structures left no chance for understanding for people, whose native language is not English. 
