Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert, and Arne Zeschel.
2010.
Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology.
Corpora, 5 (1), 1 – 27

With the appearance of language corpora the way of carrying out linguistics research has certainly changed. Corpora provide a fundamentally new analysis with statistical data and automatic computer work. It may seem that corpora are useful for every field of linguistic. However, it is not very popular in some areas. The results of the scientists’ workshop on corpora and cognitive linguistics are described in the article "Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology".

The article is in fact a dialogue between its authors, the participants of the workshop: Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert, and Arne Zeschel. The main point of the discussion is the possibility of using corpora data for cognitive linguistics research. This review focuses on the third part of the article where the scientists compare corpora frequencies with psychological reality. In this part two different points of view are presented.

Firstly, Gaëtanelle Gilquin says: “A naive mapping of raw text frequency to cognitive salience is likely to fail. Corpora cannot stand in for experimental work”. In other words, she means that the most frequent entity and the prototype are usually different things. Gilquin gives an example: the prototypical meaning of the verb “to give” is “handing over” but according to corpora the most frequent is metaphorical meaning (“to give a hug”, for instance). For this reason she concludes that corpora are an unreliable source for cognitive linguistics and it is better to use experimental data.

Secondly, Arne Zeschel writes: “Asking for psychological reality is not the same as asking for prototypicality, and corpus linguistics does not attempt to stand in for experimental work”. He claims that different results in salience and frequency are normal. Moreover, he thinks that salience is a vague and ambiguous notion and it is hard to define it. Because of this corpora data seem to be more useful. 

The dialogical base of the article helps its authors to gain their main goal: describing different points of view and ways of thinking, positing problems and sometimes suggesting their possible solutions, inviting researchers to share their experience and of course to continue this discussion.

However, the language of the article is not very simple. It contains special linguistics terms and notions which are hard to understand. Moreover, authors use long sentences and difficult syntactic constructions. All these factors make the article obscure and tiring. For these reasons, arguments also seem unclear, unintelligible and unrelated to each other sometimes.

To conclude, despite the complexity of the vocabulary and the structure of the article it is still an interesting piece of text to read. It suggests a new way of thinking about cognitive linguistics due to the appearance of corpora methodology.
