Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert, and Arne Zeschel. 2010. “Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology”  
( Introduction (pp.1-3), Part 3 (pp. 8-12), Part 7 (p.21-) in)

Ideally, linguistic works must be based on authentic language use. Nowadays corpora is more and more used in linguistic studies as a source of data. However the development of corpora is connected with some problems. One of these problems is to decide, to what extent can corpora be used in cognitive linguistics. The authors of the article “Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology” which was published in magazine “Corpora” discuss this question. The article is written for people who use corpora and know a lot about how it works. 

The authors discuss the problems connected with usage of corpora in cognitive linguistics. They are focused on the question of connection between frequency and salience. Every contributor has their own opinion. For example, Gaёtanelle Gilquin said: “A naive mapping of raw text frequency to cognitive salience is likely to fail. Corpora cannot stand in for experimental work” while Arne Zeschel maintains: “Asking for psychological reality is not the same as asking for prototypicality, and corpus linguistics does not attempt to stand in for experimental work”. However at the end they are all agree that in cognitive linguistics data from different kinds of sources must be used along with corpora.

The structure of the article is very unusual. It is a summarizing of the main ideas of the workshop. It is written in shape of dialog. Every contributor put forward an argument and the others offer the critical response. Such kind of structure is quite entertaining end engaging, however some additional efforts can be required to grasp the idea, because the structure is unwonted and at the beginning it can upset the reader.

The ideas discussed in the article are rather difficult to grasp. The reader must have some background. For people who have never worked with corpus linguistics it can be difficult even to understand what is the problem. Moreover, the article contains a lot of terms both from corpus and cognitive linguistics. Great part of these terms are not explained or the explanations are not easily understandable. The lack of definition of terms connected with corpus linguistics can be explained by the fact that the article is designed for readers of magazine ”Corpora” who are supposed to know this terms. However they are not assumed to be professionals in cognitive linguistics. So it would be much better to include in the article the terms connected with this field if linguistics.

The article draws the attention of the reader to the very important problem. Also it provides a lot of useful information, which is extremely important for professionals in corpus linguistics. Nevertheless people who are not closely familiar with corpora have to make a lot of efforts to read it.
