Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert, and Arne Zeschel. 2010. Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology. Corpora, 5 (1), 1 – 27.

The article Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology presents the results of the workshop held by a panel of cognitively orientated corpus linguists in Freiburg in 2008. Thus it should be of interest to linguists occupied by corpus or cognitive studies. “Cognitive Corpus Linguistics” in the title of the article refers to research of human cognition the central method of which is corpus data analysis. The main purpose of the workshop was to discuss application of corpora in cognitive studies, thus, the article reflects this discussion in the form of dialogues between the authors: Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert, and Arne Zeschel. This is mainly a review of part 3 of the article, the part which deals with relations between corpus frequencies and psychological reality.

First of all, the authors postulate the problem in the following way. Data elicited from the corpora often do not coincide with the experimental results, so two interconnected questions arise: how linguists should interpret corpus data and whether corpora reflect how people think. Part 3 presents two points of view on the problem.

On the one hand, Gaëtanelle Gilquin writes: “A naive mapping of raw text frequency to cognitive salience is likely to fail. Corpora cannot stand in for experimental work.”. In her opinion, one should doubt cognitive reality of corpora. The author's main argument is that corpora can not reflect prototypicality. This argument is supported by the fact that the word “give” has as a prototype the meaning of handing over, whereas corpora show that its most frequent usage pattern is being a light verb in phrases like “give a kiss”. To overcome this problem , Gilquin offers to use other statistical measures, besides raw counts, or to look for other indicators of prototypes, like age of acquisition, or to use different corpora. Despite these propositions, she concludes that indirect data of corpora is unreliable and it is better to prefer experimental methods.

On the other hand, Arne Zeschel opposes this proposal by saying :”Asking for psychological reality is not the same as asking for prototypicality, and corpus linguistics does not attempt to stand in for experimental work”. Zechel highlights three main points. Firstly, frequency of construction in corpus is connected with its likelihood to be memorized, thus corpus analysis may not need supporting experimental data. Secondly, he says that the notion of prototypicality is not well defined: although prototypes show their effects in categorization, they are ambiguous and may not even exist as mental images. So it is better to use more concise and comprehensible statistical data elicited from corpora rather than prototypes. Lastly. he says that the search for prototypes is grounded on two criteria: frequency and salience. Salience is measured by “relative accessibility of different senses of a polysemous word in zero-context sentence production task”. Interpreting the non-convergence of the corpus counts and experimental data the author says that the counts are highly dependent on the corpus – corpora of written texts or telephone conversations would result in non-converging, while prototypes elicited  from the corpora of face-to-face conversations possibly would coincide with the intuition.

In conclusion, the authors offer readers to participate in discussion of the most pressing questions in the field of cognitive corpus linguistics. They also claim that corpora are to be recognized by cognitive linguists because they contain objective information about linguistic forms an structures and can refine and improve the results of intuition-based studies.

This article can be called crucial in terms of its importance to Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: it summarizes all the main problems of the field and suggests solutions. The article raises very important questions, and although it does not answer them all, it succeeds to start further vivid discussions. The article can serve as a leading light  for cognitive linguists: it shows where one should pay more attention. The article also invites corpus linguists to share their experience and methods with colleagues researching human cognition, and to show them how differently corpora can be used. 

The article benefits from its format: the dialogue represents different approaches to various problems. However this form also has its drawbacks, because different authors have different writing habits, so the article reads as a patch-work quilt, a collage of writing styles. 

Moreover, almost all the authors prefer to use very complex constructions and polysyllabic sentences, such that they sometimes seem obscure. Thus the language prevents readers from understanding everything easily and makes them force their way through all the packed paragraphs. Note, that scientific papers have international audience, so it should be understandable by non-native speakers of English. The authors should have simplified the language and not pursue to achieve the characteristic  “scientific” flair. 

To summarize, the overloaded language of the article impedes complete understanding of all the ideas. However, the authors achieved their main aim, namely, started the discussion flowing. They also formulated the most crucial problems of the field, thus suggested the vectors for development. Because of that, in the future the article may turn out to be the turning-point in the cognitive corpus linguistics.
