Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology. Antti Arppe, GaСtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert and Arne Zeschel. Corpora 2010 Vol. 5 (1): 1–27

The appearance of corpus technologies opened a new era for the linguistic research: the possibilities for collecting data that they provide are difficult to contest. However, while corpus appears nowadays to be the fastest way to collect plentiful data and its methodologies are constantly developing, its usage raises more and more questions about the way the results should be treated within every given investigation. The paper “Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology” presents a meta-discussion on corpus linguistics and specifically on whether this method is applicable to cognitive studies. The discussion was held in the Freiburg Institute for Advanced Studies (FRIAS) by a panel of cognitively orientated corpus linguists
in October 2008, and the dialogical structure of the paper reflects the shape of the workshop itself.
	The authors begin with naming the issues that they claim to be significant for the theory and methodology of current corpus linguistics. Amongst these they argue that corpus data is indirect. Another problem is that corpus evidence should be converged with experimental design in order to achieve more objective results, but the existing communication between corpus linguists and psycholinguists is poor. The introduction presents the following topics that are covered further in the text: (1) converging evidence from corpora and experimentation, (2) whether corpora mirror psychological reality, (3) the theoretical value of corpus linguistic studies of ‘alternations’, (4) the relation of corpus linguistics and grammaticality judgments, and, lastly, (5) the nature of explanations in cognitive corpus linguistics. The goal of the article is not to give an irrefragable answer to each of these questions but to encourage a reflection and a further discussion in linguistic society.
	 The section "Corpus frequencies and psychological reality" deals with three notions - text frequency, cognitive salience and psychological prototypicality - and the connection between them. G. Gilquin claims that the prototype of a category (i.e., its maximally representative member) is likely to reflect cognitive salience for the speakers of a language. The author further cites several psycholinguistic experiments that demonstrate that this salience does not always coincide with text frequency and makes a conclusion that corpora should hardly be used in cognitive studies at all. A. Zeschel raises an objection to this claim: according to him, there is no reason to consider prototypicality the best measure for psychological reality. He points out the vagueness of the notion of prototype itself and suggests choosing a more suitable corpus for the research in question instead of total rejection of the method. 
	This discussion might seem confusing to the readers: one could question the usefulness of such a structure, when simply a dialogue is presented and there is no clear position established between the claims of both authors. Neither does the style of both its parts make it easier to grasp the ideas. However, the section written by Zeschel appears to be far more plausible: indeed, the notion of prototype, as it is presented by Gilquin, is unclear and, moreover, it seems that it cannot be linguospecific, while any corpus data mirrors the cognitive structure specific for the language given.
	As a conclusion, the authors draw the audience's attention to the measures they claim to be necessary to take so that corpus linguistics could become the mainstream in cognitive linguistics: first of all, the scholars should avoid overestimating this method. But most importantly, it should be established how to apply corpus data to the research questions specific for cognitive linguistics and the real benefits of this method should be stressed. 
	The reader of the article should keep in mind that its purpose is not to resolve the treated issues, but to draw the attention of the linguistic society to them and to encourage further discussion. This purpose is definitely achieved: though the position of every author towards every question raised is not always clear, the paper gives a lot to think about. The point about the importance of converging evidence from different methods can also never be stressed enough. 
Even though the dialogue form of the paper might seem unusual and the language structures used in it are sometimes difficult and somewhat unwieldy, it makes an important contribution to the field of cognitive corpus linguistics. It treats some really significant issues in a profound way and seems especially useful for the scholars who are used to resort to corpora with questions of any kind without considering whether this method is adequate for the research and whether the results can be used directly. 
	
