Arppe, Antti, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert, Arne Zeschel. Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology. In: Corpora Vol 5 (1): 1–27. Edinburgh University Press, 2010.

Nowadays the popularity of corpus methods in linguistic studies is rapidly growing. Therefore, linguists are trying to apply corpora to different kinds of linguistic studies. However, the adaptability of this approach for particular areas of linguistics still has to be reasoned. In the article “Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology” Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert and Arne Zeschel encourage the discussion of the applicability of corpus methods for cognitive linguistics.

The article resembles the polemics on whether or not corpus data should be used for cognitive linguistics purposes. Some scholars claim that corpora cannot substitute experiments that are traditionally used in this area. Others believe, that, despite the indirect approach, corpora can become a new research method.

In the first part Gaëtanelle Gilquin advocates the idea that “corpora cannot stand in for experimental work”. She proposes to compare the most frequent element of some category to the most salient one. According to this author, these two are rarely the same. Taking this fact into account, corpus frequency cannot substitute prototypical salience. Thus corpus cannot be treated like a reliable source of information about cognitive processes, and therefore it cannot substitute experiments.

In the next part Arne Zeschel proposes a different approach to the same matter. He says that “corpus linguistics does not attempt to stand in for experimental work”. Moreover, he considers prototypicality not suitable for representing cognition because this term is “heavily ambiguous” and therefore cannot be applied there. Instead of prototypicality he suggests to use “frequency and statistically significant co-occurrence as cues to the psychological status of a given target structure.”

In the conclusion of the article the authors agree that corpus methods should be improved to become suitable for cognitive linguistics' researches. The following two problems have to be resolved:
1. Corpus approaches concentrate on overt representations, while cognitive linguistics is interested in underlying processes.
2. “Somewhat arrogant” attitude towards other research methods. Corpus data should not be considered more accurate than experimental in a cognition research.
Authors say that, with some restrictions, corpus data can be a good supplementary for experiments with real people.

The structure of the article cannot be called typical, as it resembles a dialog. This type of organization suits the authors' aim very well, since everyone can derive his/her opinion and reply to each other's claims. However, due to its structure the article lacks stylistic unity and therefore is difficult to read even for a sophisticated person. A reader has to accommodate to the style of each part again and again because they have been written by different people, and so may differ greatly.

Since the article was published in the “Corpora” journal, its intended audience can be determined like “professional linguists”. This fact determines the way the arguments and terms are presented. However, the intended audiences of the journal and the article slightly differ. The article is written for cognitive linguists, and the journal is for corpus linguists.

One of the good traits of the article is the intention to encourage further discussion. The authors do not provide clear solutions to the problems they state, but they explicitly say that others should not remain indifferent to these issues. Moreover, the authors make up a list of the questions that should be discussed in the future.

Another good point is that the authors consider the validity of results. By writing this article they create a good example for other scientists. They provoke them not only to conduct experiments carefully but also to choose appropriate methods.

Despite the good ideas and positive intentions expressed by the authors, their work suffers from the language they use. Complicated lexis and tangled syntax make the article almost unintelligible for foreign readers. Probably, the authors should have used simpler language in order to enlarge their audience. Furthermore, the article seems jargonized because of the terms that are not explained. We believe that, considering the journal where the work is published, the terms related to cognitive linguistics should be explained before they appear in the argumentation.

All in all, in spite of some disadvantages, the article “Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology” significantly contributes to the development of both corpus and cognitive linguistics. 
