Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert, and Arne Zeschel. “Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology”. Corpora, vol. 5 (1): 1-27. Edinburgh University Press, 2010.

Language studies through corpora are the state of the art method in modern linguistics. The introduction of corpora uncovered a new approach to the language based on statistical analysis of large amounts of data. In some areas of linguistics, however, corpora are not yet widely used. The article “Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology” by Antti Arppe et al. addresses the issues connected with corpora use in cognitive linguistics.

According to the authors, there is a debate on how to treat corpora data in cognitive linguistics. Many scholars advocate the use of live experiment data, which is the traditional method in the field. Corpora, they argue, provide a too indirect approach even with high-quality data, which makes their use questionable. Some cognitive linguists, however, see corpora as a promising new method. They attempt to devise the reservations under which corpus data may be integrated into the studies.

The article is organized like a dialog, naturally following the shape of the debate setting. The central topic of discussion is whether or not corpus data can describe cognitive processes. One point of view, defended by Gaëtanelle Gilquin, is that corpora “fail to identify the items that have special status in mind”. She proposes to compare the most salient member of a given category obtained through classic experiments with the most frequent token of this category in the corpus. It appears that these two rarely coincide, thus, corpora should be treated as unreliable source for cognitive linguistics. 

In the next section Arne Zeschel replies to these claims. In particular, he states that corpora "do not attempt to stand in for experimental work". He suggests that prototypicality may be too broad of a notion to represent mental reality, and that token frequency and co-occurrence are better suited for research purposes. In addition, according to Zeschel, corpora can be improved by including more natural kinds of interaction, like casual utterances.

All in all, the authors conclude that corpora are not yet widely accepted as a method in cognitive linguistics. This stems from the nature of corpora, which deal with surface representations; cognitive linguistics is concerned with underlying processes. Another reason for mistrust is a "somewhat arrogant" attitude to traditional research methods. Authors suggest that, with some reservations, corpora may serve as a good supplementary method for cognitive studies.

This article was written as a result of a workshop, and therefore it represents the most recent ideas but does not necessarily offer solutions. The introduction, in fact, contains several disclaimers that should be read carefully if the reader does not wish to be disappointed by further content. The main intention of this article, which we also consider its main advantage, is to provoke discussion. Consequently, the reader is likely to find more questions than answers in this work. Perhaps due to urgency of the topic, debate over issues is heated, and not all the arguments seem to be well-structured. In addition, since the intended audience of the article are corpus linguists, it would be beneficial to separately define notions and terms pertaining to cognitive linguistics. We must also note that the language in some sections of this work may not be easily accessible to non-native speakers of English, who constitute a significant part of the audience.

To summarize, this article provides an interesting outlook on integration of corpus methodology into cognitive linguistics. A sufficiently motivated reader will be rewarded with opinions on the most recent issues in the field, and invited to participate in the debate.
