Arppe A., Gilquin G., Glynn D., Hilpert M., Zeschel A. (2010). Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology. Corpora, 1-3; 8-12; 21-27.

Cognitive Linguistics is a modern approach of linguistic thought and practice to the study of the relationship between human language and the mind. Research in this school is typically based on authentic language use. However, nowadays a lot of studies draw on information from corpora. At this point the question presents itself whether corpora are a useful source of data or researches do not need this type of grounds?  

In the article Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology, Arppe, Gilquin, Glynn, Hilpert and Zeschel promotes a critical discussion which raises an important issue about the necessity of using corpus data in Cognitive Linguistics. 

There are one point of view presented by two authors, however the argumentation is different in both cases. Firstly, Gaёtanelle Gilquin offers her opinion that cognitive reality of corpora is quite precarious. She proves it with the results of confrontation between the people answers and the corpus sample during the same experiment. The scholar designates this as the difference between salience and text frequency. 

Secondly, Arne Zeschel raises the same idea, but proves it with other facts. Zeschel refers to a well documented fact that the impact of frequency on all the aspects of language is unreal. He also gives the reader a few illustrative examples of broken corpus cognitive reality and concludes with the corpus data are not a gold standard in Cognitive Linguistics. 

At the end of the article the authors add that the corpus linguistics is not totally losing in Cognitive Linguistics, however, there is a range of problems which should be solved to improve the situation.

Leading above a good idea of the article which is quite remarkable to think about, there are several criticisms which can be leveled at this work. On the one hand, the authors indicate the problem and give the reader the outlooks. At the same time, they provide no specific suggestions to enhance the quality of corpus sample. 

Despite the above criticisms, the article has a high-quality structure and valid facts. The discussion seems to be extremely engaging and is considered to continue. 

In conclusion, it should be underlined that since the time of the article’s publication nearly four years had passed. It appears to be a long term and having regard to the pace of Corpus Linguistics development, the majority of problems which were mentioned in the article are resolved to date beyond dispute. However, an issue about the relativity of corpus data in Cognitive Linguistics research is still under discussion. 
