Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert, and Arne Zeschel.

 2010. 

Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology. 

Corpora, 5 (1), 1 – 27

There is the article Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology which raises some questions which have appeared with the usage of corpora data in cognitive linguistics. There is the fact that modern technologies are more and more engaged in different spheres of linguistic scientific researches. There are well-known advantages of corpus, such as being natural, representative and plentiful, which the authors easily admit. Nevertheless there are disadvantages as well. The authors want just to stress them, not to solve, that’s why after a small introduction explaining their aims they go straight to naming problems itself.

Then there is the dialog of scholars who both argue that corpora data are not validate. The main point of the first of them, G. Guilquin, is that the difference between results based on frequency (which corpus basically operates) and on salience shows that corpora data “cannot stand in for experimental work”. It should be tested on its relevance at first.

According to the second one, A. Zeschel, “there are important unresolved questions when it comes to the interpretation of corpus findings as cues to psychological entrenchment properties”. In general, she agrees with Guilquin, but she disagrees with her argumentation. Zeschel doesn’t think that scholars should rely on such vague and non-clear notion as prototipicality, hence on salience, which Guilquin basically operates with. So that discrepancies between frequency and salience, which Guilquin uses as main evidence, mean nothing, according to her opponent Zeschel. Moreover, the results depend on type of corpus used, therefore scholars should be sophisticated users before claiming lack of validity of corpora data. And at last Zeschel doesn’t fully trust experimental data. There are no proofs about their reliability as she states.  

Finally, the authors underline three basic admitted drawbacks of corpora data. A focus on form as the first one has already been partly overcome but it still remains somehow. A claim to objectivity as the second one tends to be common misconception because cognitive corpus linguistic researchers are interested in the role of subjectivity in language construction as well. And a somewhat unbecoming arrogance as the last one is about the minor role of such studies in comparison with the intuition-based ones. This leads to the statement that corpus-based researches should be supported by other one at least. 

This clear well-done structure shows the reader the whole picture of the situation and, furthermore, gives him an opportunity to be somehow in the discussion and to state his own opinion. That was the aim of the authors: to raise the interest and to gain some solutions, some feedback from the audience. They use the dialogs to achieve it and they succeed.  

It’s good that scholars explain main notions such as frequency, salience and prototipicality with clear definitions. It helps any reader to be in the article and to catch ideas.  May be this article will be too complicated for general public, at the same time, it’s easy-understandable for a bit more sophisticated reader. 

Although it’s clear that the authors are for corpus researches, they don’t show any arguments proving that, they only name the main corpus’s advantages and then move to the discussion about its disadvantages. There is the lack of evidence. For example, when Zeschel criticizes Guilquin’s position, she brilliantly demonstrates the inconsistency if her arguments but, at the same time, she doesn’t suggests anything else by herself. So the reader remains a bit perplexed because there are no evidence remained at that moment and, at the same time, he convinced about Zeschel’s rightness. So there is the contradiction which could be solved with more evidence represented in the article. The structure mostly reminds the sample of drawbacks and opinions. 

Anyhow, it correlates with the authors’ aim and shows that the questions still remained unresolved.

By Julia Koziorova.

