Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert, and Arne Zeschel. 2010. Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology. Corpora, 5 (1), 1 – 27.

As more and more linguists think that their studies should be grounded in authentic language use, the popularity of corpus data and their statistical analysis is growing. Indeed, corpus-based methodologies are useful in many cases. However, there are several problems that still need to be solved.
 
In Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology Antti Arppe et al. try to discuss some arguable issues concerning the possibility of using corpus data in cognitive linguistics. The article may be interesting for people having a background in linguistics, especially for ones that are familiar with corpus and its applicability. Unfortunately, the language of the article may not be understood by the general public.

The article consists of several statements and their evaluation. As authors say, the discussion note addresses (1) converging evidence from corpora and experimentation, (2) whether corpora mirror psychological reality, (3) the theoretical value of corpus linguistic studies of ‘alternations’, (4) the relation of corpus linguistics and grammaticality judgments, and (5) the nature of explanations in cognitive corpus linguistics. The authors write a critical response to each other’s statements on these topics, and thereby set an interdisciplinary dialogue.

Among other topics, authors discuss the notion of prototypicality and the possible connection between text frequency and cognitive salience. They claim that there is a connection, which nevertheless is indirect and should be studied more deeply. The authors also claim that corpus may sometimes provide us with even more valid information than experimental elicitation. 

On the whole, it seems that corpus cognitive linguistics may gain popularity in the future. However, it is necessary to understand that the corpus alone offers no panacea. It cannot (and does not intend to) replace more traditional techniques such as experimental work and should be, instead, combined with them.

The authors have written a significant article on cognitive corpus linguistics and presented an important discussion of some arguable points. Unfortunately, the style of the article is indecipherable and obscure, which makes it hard to understand some of the arguments stated in the text. The arguments could be less vague and the text could be more comprehensible if the authors provided the definitions of terms at the beginning of the article. The article would have been more reader-friendly if the authors had used less complicated structures and kept in mind that the audience may not be familiar with the cognitive linguistics and its methodology.

The adequate amount of examples is definitely a positive feature of the article. Every example included in the text is essential for understanding the theoretical reasoning. The logical organisation of the article is also a great advantage.

To conclude, in spite of some weaknesses of the article, the authors managed to achieve their goal and set an interesting discussion. Despite the fact that the article is hard to read, it lays the foundation for the future work in this field.
