Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert and Arne Zeschel. (2010). Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology. Corpora, 5 (1), 1-27.

The article Cognitive Corpus Linguistics: five points of debate on current theory and methodology describes us a discussion about using corpora data in different experiments and researches. The main topic of this dialogue: is it useful or not. Actually, this article describes five points of debate that are represented by 5 authors (Antti Arppe, Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Dylan Glynn, Martin Hilpert and Arne Zeschel). All of these points are about using corpora data in cognitive linguistics.

I read 2 points of view from Gaëtanelle Gilquin and Arne Zeschel. Both of them argued about the corpora data. According to these points of view, data are not validate.
G. Gilquin talks about the difference between the frequency and the salience. The results based on these two types of data do not match. The author thought that we cannot use these corpora data because we have to check if these data are correct at first.

A. Zeschel mainly agrees with the previous speaker but they have rather different argumentation and examples. First of all, Zeschel pointed that different results in sailence and frequency is normal because these are vague evedencies. She also talk about the dependence on corpus chosen. I think that is quite reasonable because each of the corpus has its own amount of words and textes. Finally she is talking about the sailence. It is a vague notion, which is bad to base on. Both of these authors do not trusr the experimental data because all of these reasons.

Finally, the author gave us three basic reasons to include corpora data into cognitive linguistics. The first on is the focus on form, because of the tradition it can be remained somewhere but in general it is over. The second one is a claim to objectivity. It is difficult to argue that corpora data is more objective than any other research. The third one is a somewhat unbecoming arrogance. That is about the opposite difference between corpora research and intuition-based study sometimes. At the end of the article, the author explains us that corpora research need to have several facts to be more effective and, overall, it is useful.

The structure of the text is quite clear; the author has a well-written text and several number of examples that is needed. He shows us the whole picture of the problem. We also can see different points of view that help us to realize several details of the using of corpora data. The description of proves is also quite good. They really can help to understand the several statement.

This text has also some negative points. First of all, the lexicon of this article is very difficult. Many unknown scientific words which are not common in use. The structure of the sentences are also dreadful because it has complex structure. Moreover, this text did not clear explain the meaning of some words, on which the text is based on. The article is for people upper-intermediate or advanced English speaker. Because of all these reasons it becomes very difficult and boring to read the text.

All in all, this article will be fascinating for linguists that have a high level of English and also for people who are interested in corpora data or corpora research.
