Everything is changing nowadays and new technologies are bringing new possibilities and new dimensions to all walks of life. One of the most important technologies is augmented reality. Augmented reality (AR) is a live, direct or indirect, view of a physical, real-world environment whose elements are augmented by computer-generated sensory input such as sound, video, graphics or GPS data. It is a good way to render real world information and present it in an interactive way. AR content can be accessed by scanning or viewing a trigger image with a mobile device that creates a subsequent action. Most people who interact with AR for the first time have a mind-blowing experience but fail to consider its various applications. Actually, there are endless ideas and possibilities for using AR. Experts suggest AR is all set to rule the future, so let’s explore how this new technology is making a difference in various industries.
Healthcare is one of the most important and practical applications of AR technologies. Right from improving medical training to making pharmacy benefit management more effective, this technology is all set to make a significant impact in these sectors for years to come. Researchers are using AR for helping doctors conduct surgeries more effectively, improving fitness, teaching complex subjects to medical students and much more. Medical students use the technology to practice surgery in a controlled environment. Visualizations aid in explaining complex medical conditions to patients. AR can reduce the risk of an operation by giving the surgeon improved sensory perception. This technology can be combined with MRI or X-ray systems and bring everything into a single view for the surgeon. 
Wearable devices like Google Glass can be used for registering relevant details of patients instead of manually feeding the data into system. This reduces overheads, facilitates smooth management and reduces chance of human-error. Another important device is AccuVein - a handheld scanner that projects over skin and shows nurses and doctors where veins and their valves and bifurcations are in patients' bodies. The device is already successfully used in hospitals, making finding a vein on the first stick 3.5 times more likely. Current Studios developed a tablet game kids can play before they go in for an MRI that measures their ability to lay still for extended periods of time. Their doctors get a dashboard with their stats, and then can better determine if a child would need general anesthetics — and that's helpful because children shouldn't be sedated unless necessary. AR mobile and glass apps can help to improve the wellness and fitness regime too. For instance, a person wearing a smartglass can view work-out related data right around his field of vision to get details about his/her fitness instead of looking at a mobile app. 
As we can see, when it comes to medicine and healthcare, AR can not only help to save lives, it can also help healthcare to make its existing processes more precise and efficient.
AR is changing education as well. In school classrooms AR can be used to create active learning experiences which really speak to the needs of visual learners. Educators know that learning deepens not just through reading and listening, but also through creating and interacting. With AR products students can manipulate and combine elements right from their digital devices, rather than just reading about them in a textbook. AR not only changes the environment around children, it also allows kids to construct their own exciting learning worlds. For example, Anatomy 4D allows users to explore a human body and isolate various body systems; with the help of ColAR Mix students can fill in the app's coloring sheets, watch the pages come to life, and then compose stories based on the images they have just designed. AR museums guide students and self-learners of all ages through interactive digital media centered around a specific theme — maybe even challenge them to play games along the way. Thus, AR is an example of a technology that can make learning more transformational and engaging. What started out as something that was simply “cool” has become a way to engage learners like never before.
There are a number of applications for AR in the sightseeing and tourism industries. The ability to augment a live view of displays in a museum with facts and figures is a natural use of the technology. With the help of AR, travelers can access real-time information of historical places just by pointing their camera viewfinder to subjects. Using a smartphone equipped with a camera, tourists can walk through historic sites and see facts and figures presented as an overlay on their live screen. Enhanced GPS systems are using augmented reality to make it easier to get from point A to point B. Using the phone's camera in combination with the GPS, the users see the selected route over the live view of what is in front of the car. 
As early adopters of AR, sports introduced the world to augmentations on the field. For example, AR headsets can help to predict performance and emphasize areas that need work. The simulations give players the chance to reenact exact copies of plays that happen on the field. AR can also help to increase understanding of the various sports through the use of virtually placed information on live video. Fans can explore behind-the-scenes videos, interactive experiences and animations simply by scanning a logo which can be found at the team’s stadium and also on their website. 
AR has become one of the hottest new advertising trends. It is successfully used to attract advertisers who can see their virtual ads placed in key places on billboards or sideboards in arenas and stadiums. AR gives brands the opportunity to unexpectedly integrate the digital world with the real world, which appeals to younger tech-lovers who are usually skeptical of traditional advertising methods. But AR doesn't only appeal to the millennial generation. The out-of-this-world, space-age effect engages just about everyone from children to grandparents. The strength of AR advertising is that it creates an experience consumers can share with others, turning them into ambassadors for the brand. 
Another important usage of AR, as Chris Kluwe pointed out, is to foster more empathy within the human species by literally showing someone what it looks like to walk a mile in another person’s shoes.
As we can see, AR technologies have the power to drive significant change and are already making inroads in various sectors. Be it medicine, education, tourism, sports or advertising, AR promises to bring a whole new world in front of us. It, fundamentally, changes the way we interact with things and objects in our day to day lives. Leading researchers will continue pushing the envelope in AR by allowing users to interact more with this technology. One thing is for sure, we are just scratching the surface of this exciting technology.
