Virtual reality is already starting to change our lives. Today, we can only see virtual reality headsets in huge malls where we can try this technology in a 5 minute animation, or hear something in the news about how virtual reality is developing. Despite the small use of virtual reality today, it is definitely a matter of time until we will not be able to imagine our life without this technology. Today, we can only see a glimpse of virtual reality’s abilities and the opportunities it brings. This technology, however, is evolving day by day and soon will become a major part of our lives in entertainment, education, and travel.
	Entertainment is one of the most profitable industries in the world. Virtual reality has the opportunity to make it even greater by changing our experiences. Imagine playing a PlayStation or Xbox console without a joystick? The player will not have his game limited to the screen, but will fully immerse himself into the game. Whether he virtually becomes his favourite player or acts as a special agent on a mission, players will be able to fully feel the atmosphere and much more excitement with the virtual reality technology. The second example is simply watching television. I believe virtual reality will finally make the TV obsolete, replacing it with the virtual reality goggles or helmets. Similarly to the virtual gamers, it will allow the person to immerse into the movie and be able to travel inside the scene of the movie, experiencing what that character is experiencing at the moment. Imagine how horror movie lovers will like this experience, as well as action lovers and adrenaline chasers? Entertainment will definitely be revolutionised by virtual reality in many ways, it  is a question of when.
	Education is another major industry that will be undoubtedly affected by the virtual reality progress. If we take history studies as an example, imagine how much better students can learn history by taking virtual tours into how people lived in the Roman Empire, or how life looked like during the World Wars. Besides reading, virtual reality will help students feel what it was like and as a result study history better. What is even more important is the opportunity medical students will have thanks to virtual reality. How often do students have the opportunity to see surgeries in action? These opportunities are limited. When a surgeon wears a device recording the experience real-time, students will be able to wear virtual reality goggles and see in detail how the experienced surgeon is operating to get real hands on experience from their homes. This will save millions of lives in a matter of years or maybe even months because each surgeon will be so experienced and calm even during their first surgery, reducing the risk of errors to almost zero.
	Another part of life that will be significantly changed thanks to virtual reality is travel. First of all, not everyone has the opportunity to travel around the globe, even though almost everybody dreams of traveling. Thanks to virtual reality, people will be able to experience the cultures of other countries, experience amazing emotions that they might not be able to ever experience in reality. Everybody wondering what Paris looks like from the top of the Eiffel Tower will be able to see it, without the crazy money required to do so. Of course, it will not be able to fully replace travel, but it will give an opportunity for people who do not have the resources for travel to see experience the world. Furthermore, people who have the resources to travel will have even better experience. For example, when a tourist comes to the coliseum, they will have an opportunity to put on virtual reality goggles and see how the battles happened and what it felt like to be a gladiator. These experiences will enhance travelers’ experiences even further, and as a result, once again will educate people better.
	The examples displayed above show just only several ways in which virtual reality can change our world. However, the human imagination is limitless, and it will use this innovation to change our lives in every aspect. Education, healthcare, sports, entertainment, travel, music, work, business will all be revolutionised by the massive implementation of virtual reality. While we only have a glimpse of what it looks like, soon this technology will become an irreplaceable part of our daily lives.
