New technologies are developing rapidly. Some of them have already changed our lives (internet, smartphones) and others are waiting for their time. Augmented reality is a technology based on adding various virtual objects and elements to the reality. The concept relies on combination of virtuality with reality. It becomes increasingly popular nowadays. Many scientists and businessmen are confident that augmented reality will significantly change all aspects of our lives. To my mind, the technology is extremely useful and its potential for implementation is enormous. 
First of all, this technology will dramatically affect education making studying as interactive as possible. Text and video will be added to a student’s real time environment. Textbooks will contain embedded “markers” that, when scanned by an AR device, produce supplementary information to the student rendered in a multimedia format. Moreover, children and adults will be able to obtain required information just by thinking about it and receiving the data on the glasses. It will lead to faster learning and provide students with opportunity to skip boring technical aspects of the subject focusing on the main idea.  
Secondly, augmented reality will influence such an important sphere as sports becoming common in sports telecasting. See-through and overlay augmentation provide better understanding of the sports and increase excitement leading to growing audience. Moreover, this technology will attract additional sponsors, who will be able to put their commercial advertisements somewhere on the playing area.
Thirdly, military applications of augmented reality will also change our future. There are already several systems allowing commanders to send important information (maps, tasks etc.) directly to the soldier's field of vision. It can also provide key information related to the location of enemies or satellite footage in the right time. Overall, augmented reality may revolutionize the battlefield. Consequently, lots of companies and governments are working on the development of this technology for military purposes.
Last but not least, medicine and healthcare are already partially changed by augmented reality. This trend will continue in the future, because it is one of the most practical applications of this technology. For instance, augmented reality can provide doctors with information such as showing the heartbeat rate or the blood pressure during the surge. It can also be used for looking inside a patient by combining several sources of images (e.g. X-ray) with another (e.g. video).
To conclude, technologies are changing the way of life. They change people, society, and environment. The usual way of studying, entertaining, treatment and even fighting will be gone. We will wear strange glasses. We will see the football game by the eyes of professional. We will be scanned and analyzed by the instruments never seen before. We will face the new reality, which will be augmented. In my opinion, it is exciting future that will come soon.
