Nowadays there is no doubt that we are going to face radical changes in all spheres of our life in the next decades despite the fact that many people are afraid of them. As Chris Kluwe affirmed: “The augmented reality is coming”. This provokes the debate whether new technologies are good or no good, whether we are ready for them or not.
To start with, many people believe that the fast technological development will lead to some positive outcomes. For example, recent inventions in IT (Google glass, Go Pro, Oculus, etc.) already help us to get a sense of what it is like to be a professional sportsman, which can make young generation more interested in taking the career in sports or just keep fit. Another argument is that we can use the augmented reality for something more than just entertainment. This development can be a useful tool to inspire our generation to think more about science or space, and what is even more important to foster more empathy as long as you are in shoes of a real sportsman, cosmonaut or scientist. Moreover, as Chris Kluwe suggested, it can be used to solve vitally important problems in our society such as bullying (the device can show bullying from the side of the victim). 
New technologies can also be helpful in building a different approach to education and health-care. New educational systems are emerging in the last decades with the development of  Internet and social-networks. The most vivid example is Coursera – a website full of variety of courses to take from maths to poetry. You are to choose what to study and subscribe to the course. As simple as that. Another example is a system of distance education by the Internet which can be very helpful for students who cannot attend classes in the university for some reasons. 
Another field which will definitely change in the next years is health-care system. The TED speaker Eric Dishman believes that the current health-care system is set up the wrong way because specialists look to a particular problem that concerns us, but do not see the complex situation with our health. He claims that the existing system is unsustainable and offers the audience the new one which is focused on a personal analysis of the patient using care networking – the team of professional doctors. The idea behind is to change the approach to our health and to use our hi-tech devices for something efficient. 
However, some people contradict that the technologies can lead to something good. The majority of people who criticize changes are used to the old system. They do not see why we should put our effort, time and money into the developments instead of using the existing system which can also save our money. What is important to say is that development means more opportunities and it is a natural process of changing which cannot be abandoned. I do not mean that we should let traditional ways of life die out. It is better to cherish and preserve them, but to invest in the future at the same time.  
To conclude, it is evident that all walks of life are going to change in the near future and we should be ready to face them. In fact, the augmented reality has already come and sooner we realize the importance of technological development the better future we will be able to build.
