I think there are two ways of new technologies in our life. It is two side of one coin. 
Education. I was at IT forum where different IT-companies presented interesting and modern products. There were glasses. It shows you virtual reality and you play the game. I think that it is not necessary to have this one in our life in reason the virtual games doesn’t help to people. Moreover, they are the reason of degradation and hurt human mentality if he uses it very often. Some pupils in schools use the calculators and don’t solve the problems by themselves. And then they don’t know solving of simple arithmetical problems. They say: “For what? We can count it but calculator will do it faster”. So they don’t have a good experience in solving basic mathematical problems we need to use in our life. But it is up to us. For example, the student or the pupil have solved the problem and wants to test if his solving true. It is really good that nowadays we have many apps to do it. We have translators and it is glad to know the translation of the word faster than we did it 50 years ago. We have mobile phones, CV-cameras and so on. 
About health. I watched the video about personal health care. Of course, we can’t just listen to the doctors and don’t ask them about illness. Every person must read more and explore new information about his illness. Modern technologies in medicine give chance to analyze almost all human’s body from teeth to toes. We can’t do operations without it. Doctors have to know their specialization. If they don’t know what the numbers in analyses means so they can make unreal diagnosis…
So the first side of the coin is that new technologies damage human’s life. And the second is that new technologies allow “to upgrade our life” and do something faster than person. But we haven’t to forget that person constructed computers. I don’t agree with expression: “all walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies”. I believe in human’s  mind!

