Is emotional hygiene a first step to establish a well-being?

Why do we care mostly only about physical health?  Psychological health is important 

for us too. It can affect the overall health and the way you live.

In TED video Guy Winch says that there are four main factors that influence on our 

emotional condition and our self-esteem. The first is Loneliness. It creates deep 

psychological wound. You are surrounded by people all the time, but anyway you feel lonely. 

You fell emotionally and socially disconnected. It will kill you, it will mentally suppress you. 

Because Loneliness causes high blood pressure, high cholesterol and etc. 

So, as we can see, Loneliness may lead to significant risk for our longterm health. 

That is why it is really important to ensure your emotional hygiene.

The second point is Failure. Everybody has their own different reaction on the 

Failure. Someone may cry or shout, someone may fight thought it and someone may not 

take care about it at all. But, in any case, we should protect our self-esteem in order to avoid 

the same Failure in the future.

The next point according to Guy Winch, that affect our overall health, is Rejection. 

Everybody is afraid of Rejection. After it, people start to find disadvantages in them and 

usually say themselves that they are losers. It is a kind of self-flagellation. If you feel bad, 

let’s make it worse! 

The author give us an example as a comparison: you take knife and you try to see 

how much deeper you can make you wound. Why we usually do this with our psychological 

pain, but never with our physical injury? It’ all because of our poor psychological hygiene. 

The last point is Rumination. Spending do much time focused on upsetting and 

negative thoughts can really affect to your physical health. Therefore, you should struggle 

with negative thinking. 

In addition, you can treat yourself with the help of your true friend and his 

compassion. As Daniel Goleman says that we can help other people only by paying attention 

to them! He also tell the audience about our generation: we are focused on ourselves. We 

don’t fully notice the others. Now many people suffer from narcissism. However, it is really 

nice when you are feeling good for the people whom you had helped. 

In this case, you can help your friend and safe him from psychological pain and you 

can help yourself to feel better too.

Therefore, if you are psychologically feeling well, your physical health will recover too. 

Cause stress weaken your immunity, as a result you are more prone to get sick. The first 

step to being health in both sides psychological and physical is to focused on the positive 

thoughts. And now I’m a bit sick and I’ll try to avoid negative and to set yourself up to recovery.
