Modern world is already dramatically changed since for example last years of nineteenth century. Nowadays new technologies are everywhere. We cannot avoid this process of adoption new and new technologies. I think actually we don’t need to stop this process. I believe that new technologies make it possible to develop and improve various areas of our life, but it will not radically change them. Let's look some areas of our life.

First – sport. Even sport could not be left out of the global information revolution. Maybe 20 years ago new technologies were impossible, but not today. For example, computers help to see and to control a progress of the sportsmen, optimize his results. It is great, but anyway sportsmen need to train hard, because without training new technologies will not help. If we see from the direction of audience, I believe they are happy to see interesting videos from GoPro camera, to feel himself like a sportsman using Google glass. This is unforgettable experience, but they will go to the football or hockey match. These videos will not substitute a real game.

Second – health care. New technologies are also here. Before it takes a lot of month of tests to know your diagnosis, it will be a trial for any of people. In his video Eric Dishman mentioned three areas in health care - Care Anywhere (doctor can follow  online state of health of the patient), Care Networking  (that all doctors need to work together, not each doctor only for his sphere), Care Customization (doctors treating patients as averages, not unique individuals). I am a little skeptical about these statements. Care anywhere- yes, it is possible to follow some state of health due to new technologies, but to treat and examine completely online impossible. And Care Networking and Customization is a must, with or without new technologies.

Third – education. I can't deny many useful things that bring us new technologies in education. We can listen to a lecture from foreign professor, learn foreign languages via different platforms, participate in MOOCs, and many others educational benefits. It saves our money and time in many cases. But I think that it will not replace real education. We can use this as channel to supplementary education, but ground education we need to receive at school and at universities.

So, new technologies greatly facilitate our lives and make better, but fundamentally they will not change our life. At least in the coming years.
