At the beginning of the 21th century information technologies become an important part of person’s life and today it is hard to find a person especially in developed countries who can live avoiding using Internet, for example. For most of us IT are associated with smartphones, laptops personal computers, Internet, Google, Facebook and so on. However, many specialists in different spheres claim that information technologies will not stop with internet and mobile and go further in other areas such as, for instance, sports, education and so on, to make them more convenient for a person.
I would like to start with sports. Sport sphere for an ordinary man can be divided into two parts: watching sport events (on TV, Internet or at the stadium) or doing actually sports (playing football, tennis, swimming and so on). With the help of information technologies (mostly personal computers and devices such as Playstation and Xbox) third type appears. This computer games help you to gain experience of actual participation in the game but avoiding physical efforts. Technologies are developing extremely fast and now new types of sport entertainments are going to appear or are already at the market. I would like to single out two of such devices which seem to be on the top of popularity nowadays – Google Glass and Oculus Rift. These two tools gives a person an experience of watching sport events or playing computer games which can be hardly distinguished from reality. While for sports amateur this innovations are mostly for fun, for a professional these technologies could bring a significant boost in their professional skills and performance. Technologies will make sportsmen run faster, jump higher and in case of team sports will make team communications more convenient on the field. This shift will not only develop professional performance and results better than ever before, but also will lead to a greater experience for fans (So they always win).
Sport theme is closely related to health care topic, however, acknowledge seems to be more important for humankind. Talking about healthcare it should be mentioned that information technologies have already saved millions of people (through some kind of diagnostics). But now it is clear that IT are going to make a revolution in this sphere. Traditionally healthcare system is represented by hospitals or specialized clinics. This system despite its advantages has several drawbacks. Firstly, it gathers all diseases at the same place. Imagine a person who goes to a clinic due to simple cold and get something like flu from another man who was before him in a line to a doctor. Secondly, doctors are poorly coordinated and going from one two another will lead to different ways of treatment which can sometimes contradict each other. Furthermore, this hospitals and clinics demand huge amount of money from the government and some of the countries, the poorest ones, cannot even afford them. Information technologies have a solution. The main idea is that a person with the help of IT can receive medical treatment not leaving his home. Many medical devices for person’s health diagnostic are now available and price-affordable. So, using this staff and consultations from the doctor, person can be cured at home. Of course, this technology is not suitable for all “hard cases” which bear risk for someone’s life, but anyway, they can and will make our life easier and more convenient.
While technologies make our life easier we should not forget that every coin has two sides. On the one hand, technologies improve our life and boost the progress, but on the other hand these innovations can finish with a disaster for a mankind. This problem is widely illustrated in world-known Hollywood movies. The most recognized of them is Terminator with Arnold Schwarznegger. In this film James Cameron shows how playing with technologies can lead to elimination of the whole mankind. This topic seems to be of paramount importance nowadays due to recent research in creating artificial intelligence. One more important feature is that in case of no electricity, for instance, we could not survive nowadays, so this dependence can be harmful for people.
To sum up, I would like to point out that technological progress is a gift of science which saves people lives, creates the new ones, and makes life easier and more pleasant. However, a mankind shouldn’t relax, while overdependence and overdeveloped IT can play a bad joke with us and our planet. 
