All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies.
Technology is already in all parts of our lifes. In our pockets all of us have a smartphone or at least cell phone, look at you neighbor’s hand may be on his wrist you will find smartwatch or sport wristband, which counts your spent calories, steps, pulse, sleep phase etc. Your house may be have smart door handle or smart light bowl which you can control via smartphone. All this technology came into our life in last decade, and completely changed the world around us, somewhere in better side, but we always have minority that says “before were better”. Of course we should confess that most of this technology has changed our life to better, more convenient side. 
But if we are going to talk about dramatically change in our nearest future, I think it won’t happen. We’ve made smaller almost everything we could, all our chips are made in border of possible nano-size, that’s way developing of technology may slow down till will be find new way to create chips. Of course we will continue create new apps, devices and programs to make our life even more convenient. If we start talk about augmented reality, I think it’s still far away from us in complete meaning of this combination of words. Now it’s closer to gaming sector, but it’s still not augmented reality, it is virtual reality. In deed we still have no mass consumer product of this VR helmets. On last Mobile World Congress were presented few VR helmets to consumers, sells didn’t start, so we don’t know the feedback of audience. When Google glass was presented, it accepted very well, but as we see now Google glass is not mass product. It uses in very specific areas. It happened because the glasses not convenient in our everyday life. It has short live time from battery, strange design, and uncomfortable control system. Cause of all this minuses is lack of knowledge and technology. In nearest future we will get more and more virtual reality, but not augmented reality, and it is not going to be blow of new technology that dramatically change our everyday life.
