Rastorgueva Mariia
18/03/2016

Essay
All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies

Our life every day is became more technological. Now we can not to imagine our normal work-day or educational-day without mobile phone, computer, Internet and so on. We really live in the network of technologies. Modern live technologies provide others technological realities as virtual reality and augmented reality. A virtual reality it is the world created by IT technologies, it is full diving in another digital word. Augmented reality is some medium thing between digital and real word. It is number of digital technologies for improving our live.  
Let us to look for advantages and disadvantages of the second phenomenon. One the one hand, to my mind the most important problem with using some technology of augmented reality is how it uses reasonably. For instance, there are some educational application packs for studying starry sky like Sky Map or Star Walk. It is brilliant application consist of star map of sky and some addition information of the heavenly bodies. It is good visual recourse for children on the lessons of Astronomy, but not for student. We cannot to know about the sky without practices of real observing via our glasses or telescope. Moreover, especially young users of modern augmented reality gadgets have a dangerous to lose feel of reality. 
But on the other hand, modern IT technologies can improve our life in different spheres. For example, football came (or in general same sport game with similar structure). I would like to give an example of advantages of IT technologies in education. Application New Horizon makes learning English more various. This application contents some books and animated fragments of book’s chapters, so that users can read, listen and view a book in English. Moreover, let’s to imagine technology of 2023th. There are some specific glasses for players that include map of football field with some tactical remarks. This technology helps to keep in mind strategy of real game and, probably, to correct it online. Football can be sportive, intellectual and high-technology games.    
I consider that modern technologies not to change our live dramatically, but opposite that improve our live, if me use that reasonable.   


  
