All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies.

In the XXIst century it’s rarely discussed, that the modern human living is more technology-driven than any time before. No wonder, that every recent engineering breakthrough is examined on how it can benefit to the society, rather than considered as just a «pure science» laboratory masterpiece. In other words, the reality the world is shifting to is that any coming of new technologies is to dramatically change the future of people’s walks of life.

The tech society sees our era as the age of the so-called «Fourth industrial revolution». Occurred after the «3rd revolution» (or the digital paradigm), the new industrial environment is considered to bring the world a transformation unlike any humankind has experienced before. Based on digital computers and digital record, the Fourth revolution (a.k.a. Industry 4.0) offers a number of ways to automate data collection, exchange and interpretation, for (now possible!) subsequent improvements to goods manufacture and performance boost.

Drawing together the various hi-tech concepts, the Industry 4.0 is already put into life through the «Augmented reality» devices. The «virtual reality» gadgets can be left in 2000`s, as the augmented reality appliances now can collect the real data, analyze it, and supply the user with a brand-new image of a real world along with a new interactive context. Among the spheres where it’s already in use are the military entities, education, sports and entertainment, and health care industry.

As the army and medical service are the spheres where saving a human life is crucial, the augmented technologies introduced to facilitate remote manipulations (i.e. body surgeries, bomb deactivation or disaster liquidation), providing a user with a picture-based data analysis and real-time calculation. Moreover, in the Western countries is debated a demand for pushing these technologies from mainframe availability towards mainstream accessibility. The idea behind the use of big-data and cloud technologies in medicine lays upon a need to interconnect the different parties involved into treatment process (doctors from different institutes, niche experts and even financial advisors), as the obsolete poor team work provokes much loss of money and time, vital for the patients. Modern patients are getting more and more aware, and tend to make optimal choices on their health care, that’s why patient organization’s lobby is a target group for such giants as IBM, Microsoft, Google and Logitech, as we see their collaboration.

As the medicine is shifting from services for an average patient to a customized care, so does the entertainment industry and sports. The «Google glass» product is no longer a lab concept, and is experiencing a competition with usual smartphones and smartwatches as a more expensive, though a rather interactive device. So does the IBM Corp. with the «WATSON» supercomputer, seen as a new industry standard for combining continuous data analysis, real-time prediction and solutions combination. It works with everything connected to the Internet: firms’ finance or logistic systems, treatment suggestion upon a disease case history database, or your favorite club tournament strategy for the coach. Here, the businesses gain more money from satisfied customers, who watch (or even visually take part in) a more dynamic arcade show on the field and on the screen.

However, Such self-learning system as IBM WATSON is, of course, yet a rare example of the machines of the oncoming decades. While some see a potential for the «machine uprising», the Industry 4.0 locomotives keep investing into it. No need to say, that the cost for such supercomputers is currently unbearable for a mass business-to-business market, what provokes a future cross-industry domination for several IT, tech and consulting giants, which are seizing the opportunity to make «traditional» businesses dependent on this expertise. However, as long as such systems are aimed to improve manufacturing and cost controlling, the cheaper mass market solutions within augmented reality concepts may soon appear.

It’s hardly opposed, that the new technologies are going to change the vast majority of the shades of modern living. However, we, the average smartphone and e-mailing users may doubt how dramatic can be the penetrations into our everyday practices. At least, the major industry corporations are going to pay back from their investments, what, at last, could be good for a mass user of such devices.
