All people require some stillness in their life, even if in different 

Everybody needs to have their own space and time to be alone with himself. Our 

brain should have minimum 10 minutes of silence per day in order to rumination about the 

present moment and to make an effort to review it.

Brain is the main organ of our body, who control almost everything. But, 

unfortunately, it has problems. 

It TED video Vilayanur Ramachandram tell the audience about three rare problems of 

the human brain. The first is recognition. The person can not recognize, for example, his 

mother. This syndrome is called Capgras delusion. It mean the problems in face area in a 

brain. Something wrong with this: the visible view doesn’t reflect the essential emotion. It 

means that the special link in brain is cut.

The second disaster is called phantom limb. It appears after the amputation of the 

limb. The person feels the pain in the arm, which was cut. And the author offers the method 

to treat this with the help of mirrors. The person understands that he sees the reflection if 

real arm, but the brain mysteriously thinks that it is a cut arm and it can move free, so there 

is no pain there. So this cheating relieves the phantom pain in limbs.

The last syndrome that Vilayanur describes is Synesthesia, genetic basis that 

consists of mingling of the senses.

All described syndrome are rare, but they take place to be. Human’s brain has some 

weaknesses, therefore people can be in danger to get disorder with the brain.

We live in incredibly busy world. We always do something. When did you take time to 

do nothing last time? We missed out things that are the most important to us. We always 

deal with stress. Therefore, our brain is under pressure all the time.  

The author of one of the TED videos, Andy Puddicombe, says that we can reduce our 

stress and weaknesses of our brain with the help of meditation. You spend only 10 minutes 

per day on you: nothing to do, nothing to think, just relax. It can change understanding the 

present moment, you become less distracted and nervous. Meditation has impacts on our 

entire life. 

Meditation can help people to be focused on many things in one moment: it allows 

thoughts to take place without full involvement. Meditation offers the opportunity to step back 

and to get a positive and different perspective to see the things as they appear.

We can change the way we see the world and be calm on our life.

measure and through different means.
