All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies.
The 21st century- the era of new technologies, the digital era of life. Today we get used to treat with our smartphones like our personal assistants. Should we mention famous IOS Siri app? Of course, every technology, as every innovation has its pros and cons. Their advantages and disadvantages are the flip sides of each other, and you cannot have one without the other. For example, helping us to schedule our plans, Siri makes you not to remember simple things, as Mother’s  birthday or daughter’s first day at school. What would happen if one day smartphones didn’t work any more. I think, it will be a great trial for our memory.

By the way, it’s better to use properly all the advantages of new technologies. We should realize one simple thing- all these technologies were invented to help us, to make our life easier, to open more and more possibilities for developing. And the  one and only aim for us today is not to destroy these inventions, to use them in a good cause, not to harm.
Just have a look back on technologies that we have in 2000’s. The mobile phones were like something unexplored for us those days. And today we could see how our parents look surprised and at the same time shocked using these technologies. Would we look the same way in next 20-30 years? 
Today we used to meet even little children using smartphones. And of course, there are many pros and cons for there future development. For example, there are lot of applications that help children to learn reading, math, languages etc. Lots of different games that help to develop child’s motility and visual memory. But sometimes children lose this thick border between reality and virtuality. And adults must teach them how to use these in some way “toys for grownups”. 
Sometimes even adults  can’t  break this world of their fantasy, and come back to reality. For example, using Project glass or Google glasses. When you play in that thrilling and exciting world of your dreamland, its hard to find your way back. 
To sum up, I want to mention that nowadays the new technologies are extremely changing our ways of life, we will never be the same. And its up to us to decide- to use it properly for good cause, or to lose control over the machines.  Of course, in the nearest feature we will face the amazing, wonderful changes that technologies bring to us. The education will be accessible for all the people around the world, I hope. The game industry  become more exciting, more attractive, cooler. Health care changes will be just marvelous. Even now you can see these 3D made transplants for patients. Health care, as an education, will become more available, cheaper and qualitative. The humankind should remember one thing – to use the technologies to bring peace, harmony and love, not to destroy everything, to harm and damage.
