Our modern world is unthinkable without cold and hot running water, central heating,

refrigeration, nearby supermarkets, public transport, antibiotics, civil rights and 

freedoms, the Internet and all the other conveniences and comforts of modern life that 

we sometimes take for granted. It should seem we have never had it so good. However, 

there are plenty of people who claim: “We’re going to hell in a handcart.” Let’s speculate 

what makes them think so.

The key question the recent dispute has been on is whether we are fundamentally any 

better off now than in the “good old days”. The so-called deteriorationists believe 

everything has got worse in almost all facets of life. Speaking about demography, they 

point out that the planet is overheating, population numbers are exploding, and 

communities are being lost. The political and social prospects are also looking seriously 

grim: liberal democracy is creaking on its foundations; graduates are leaving university 

with substantial debts, little hope of finding a job and next to no chance of getting on the 

property ladder. Meanwhile, children no longer romp outside and explore the world but 

fester indoors with their iPads posting selfies and surfing internet porn. As for culture, 

both classical and pop music pale in comparison to the heights reached in the past. Art 

has become a corporate fetish, and the figure our times now exalt is no longer the artist 

or the scientist but the celebrity.

To a certain extent, that gloomy viewpoint might be right, but we shouldn’t 

underestimate technological and scientific advances, social, political and economic 

changes that make the world we currently live in indeed a better place than in the past. 

Probably first what comes to one’s mind is that we don’t have to empty chamber pots or 

walk to the outhouse. Next, we don’t have to grow our own food, if we don’t want to. 

Over the past 200 years, the increase in agricultural productivity has freed most of us 

from this burden and cheaper, faster transportation has given consumers access to 

more varieties of food at a lower cost. Not to mention anesthesia, antibiotics, and 

immunization that allowed treating many diseases that were incurable in the past. 

Anyone who isn’t a killjoy should recognise that now is the golden age: we are freer, 

richer, warmer, healthier, and more tolerant of differences than we’ve ever been in 

history. The internet has brought the world to our finger tips, cheap travel has allowed 

us to roam the earth and almost everything – good food, entertainment, music – that 

was once limited to the very rich is available to most of us in infinite variety.

But which age, argue the optimists, would these people prefer to live in? The age when 

they burnt witches? When women were chattels? When 

Although numerous skeptics frown on the twentyandsomething prospects of our society, 

there are also causes for optimism. So it is up to a person whether to frown or to smile 

looking ahead. Yet, I am convinced as the Bible says “contentment is great gain” and 

it’s better to value and treasure what we have now than to mourn and sigh for what we 

left behind in the past.
