We live in the global world where technologies are developing really fast, and now we can’t imagine our life without technological devices. They make our life easier and faster. We can find the way home from anywhere, we can listen to any music we want, and we can observe the central square of the country from the opposite part of the Earth. These technological devices make our life more interesting and exciting. 
But can we benefit from these devices? For example, in the sphere of health care or in the sphere of education. Yes, of course. And, in my honest opinion, technologies will change all walks of life in the nearest future significantly.
One of the speakers from TED, Chris Kluwe, tells about new devices that will help people to involve people more in sports. For instance, he says that Google Glass allows you to see what the person with this device see. It is really amazing equipment that may give you a sense of involvement in a sport game. Imagine, the 200 kg man rushing into you. Unforgettable feeling. Google Glass let you to be a little bit closer. You can get tackled by football team with your favorite players. 
Also Chris Kluwe tells about virtual devices, for example, Oculus Rift. These glasses allow you to immerse yourself to virtual reality, to experience sensations that are not available in real life for you. People want to have new and more exciting emotions; they want to face new challenges. 
In addition, new technologies extend capabilities not only in the sport sphere, but in the sphere of health care too. In the TED’s video done by Eric Dishman, the man with a donor kidney, there are the arguments for it. The speaker tells about health care and says that it’s really important to care about each other and in the real time. He thinks that we should reinvent the health care system, because most of the doctors are from 1970-1980th, so they are old school and not prepared for our modern world. The speaker gives an example, where three different doctors give him three different ways of treatment. 
Eric Dishman offers the way of three pillars: care anywhere, care networking and care customization. He is convinced that hospitals are truly dangerous place and it will be more comfortable not to attend them. So he shows the audience the usage of mobile ultrasound and the online conference with his doctor. In my opinion, it is the most convenient way of treatment – with the help of your device you have no need to leave your house and to be in danger of catching new viruses in the hospital. 
Due to the fact that he lives with the donor kidney, it’s really comfortable to have ultrasound for diagnosis on hand in case of emergency. This technology will allow you to have your own doctor on hand in every moment of your life.
Moreover, the sphere of education will not remain without attention too. In our addition materials was information about new opportunities or new ways of getting knowledge. For example, Sky Map and Star Walk that are available on Android and iWhatever devices. These deceptively simple applications pack a megaton punch of education via an innovative augmented reality approach. Both involve pointing the gadget to the sky and seeing the names of the currently visible stars, planets, and constellations pop up, along with additional astronomical information. So you can discover the star sky sitting at home. May be, in the future we will not leave our houses to attend education courses, they will be all online.
To sum it up, I would like to add that no one knows what will be the most progressive way of life to involve the usage of technological devices in order to make our life more comfortable and exciting. All spheres are developing with the help of technologies and gadgets. New technologies have a great future and they are going to change our life significantly. We can only live with them, enjoy it and develop them.
