All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies.
Nowadays we’re facing massive changes in all areas of our life, and the main reasons of these transformations are technologies. Developing of the new technologies getting faster and faster every year, and we have to change our lifestyle too. 
First of all, let’s see, what the new technologies bring in our everyday life. For example, we can see, how it changes medical field. I’m not talking only about new researches, which help to develop healthcare in general, but also about some revolutionary inventions. Eric Dishman gives us a perfect example – portative devices, which help to stay in touch with your doctor in every possible place. Furthermore, Dishman talks about brand new system of health care, which could (and must, he insist) developed in the nearest future – he called it personal health system, and technologies will be it basis. So we can’t deny the vital changes in this sphere of life, and this changes start today and will be more remarkable in the future.
The other rapidly growing sector is the augmented reality – «medium through which the known world fuses with current technology to create a uniquely blended interactive experience». I think, this innovation cause huge debates. There are a lot of people who stand for this new technology. And we can’t close our eyes on all the possibilities which the augmented reality gives us. The testing abilities of virtual reality are enormous – from trainings for sport teams or astronauts to everyday help with driving lessons. Also, like Chris Kluwe suggests, virtual reality makes sport more entertaining and vivid for the viewers. 
Augmented reality  considerably broaden the museum sphere too, in all ways – it brings life and illustrative, performativity in museums, which help increase the interest of the visitors and make every tour unforgettable. For example, all you need for time traveling is special glasses or apps, which recreate the world around you and show how this place looks like a century ago. It’s a possibility to create history in live. Or another usage – QR cods, which are now in every big city. They provide an access to information about memorials and monuments if only you have internet and gadget for it.
In my point of view, the most questionable aspect of augmented reality is the ability to recreate any activity – you can jump from the top of the mountain, play football or go to the concert, and all this without even living your room. On the one hand, it is really exciting – you can try new unbelievable things, which are, maybe, beyond your physical possibilities (it is important, for example, for disabled people). But on the other hand, is it so good? Maybe there are a lot of things, which requires your presence, some precious momentsthat you miss with all the virtual reality around you? That is, I think, the most important question not only for this question, but for problem of the new technologies themselves.
However, we can’t deny the fact that the world today id changing very fast, and we must adopt to this changes. A lot of them are good and vital in so many ways – in health care, sport, education, even entertainment. Thus we must think and find our balance between the purposeful and meaningful usage of this technologies, which make our lives better and easier, and the moments when the same technologies steal something from us.
