Technologies are having an intense development spurt nowadays. Every week, every day the new types of high tech features are revealed and shown to public. And it is very obvious that in the nearest future new technologies will drastically change our everyday life. What is more – they will change nearly every aspect of a human being. But not all of this changes are formidable. 
The most impressive thing to be in the list of walks-of-life breaking technologies is the augmented reality. And it is far more than just virtual reality that was predicted years ago. It is a huge step forward in attaching future technologies in work, education, sports, communication, entertainment – in nearly everything we face throughout our life. Imagine further development of the ideas of Google Glass, MITAR Games, Second life etc.! Special equipment that gives you hints or help in game sports, shooting, driving, even performing a very difficult surgery! And all this is coming way sooner than you think. 
What is more important everyone is interested in these technologies. In sports they will increase entertainment for fans and consequently earnings of sport clubs. In medicine they will allow to reduce the amount of money invested by the governments. And this list of useful features for the society can be continued infinitely. And if people and governments are interested in them, money will be invested in the development of future technologies and it will cause the acceleration of this development. The circle closes.
The only walk of life that will be affected by future technologies as I think is real-life human communication and relationship. What is more, it is already damaged dramatically. People do not talk no more – they chat, twit, text etc. Young men do not search for a girlfriend in libraries, cafes or streets (the old-school way) – they search online. Young ladies dress beautiful not to impress mentioned young men – they do it to get likes. I think that further development of technologies will eliminate warm and cozy human communication and feelings. And I want to be wrong.
The coming of new technologies will change dramatically all walks of life in the near future. But I believe that we have to try to preserve the very filling of a human being, making the change of decorations and wrappings of it as new technologies only help us in difficult parts of our lives.
