All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies
Computer technologies have tightly integrated into our lives and the most progressive examples of it are augmented and virtual realities.
Augmented and virtual reality have made significant progress in the last decades, thus allowing to create tools that can be useful almost in all spheres of human’s life.
Augmented reality (AR) is a software technology that allows a virtual 2D or 3D computer-generated image to be overlaid onto a real environment. It differs from virtual reality because it utilizes the real world. The main idea of VR is to create a digital world in which the user can be immersed and interact. In AR, the user can see the real world as well as digital objects superimposed over it.
AR was first used in the 1990s, when applications were related to the training of pilots. AR is being used in education to show 3D representations of structures including the internal human body and the earth. AR helps students to engage in authentic explorations in the real world. Some textbooks contain markers which, when scanned with a device, show 3D scenes.
Integrating simulation and augmented reality for health care education has been implemented at Sheffield Hallam University in England with positive results. Eighty-seven percent preferred the integrated learning experience over the traditional simulation experience.
Virtual reality has large potential in manufacture, where humans and robots interact. The latest trends foster the coexistence of humans and robots under a collaborative environment, sharing both workplaces and tasks. The synergy effect of the human’s intelligence and flexibility robot’s precision and strength with the robot’s precision and strength is great, especially in the case of small scale production, where re-configurability and adaptability are of great importance.
Obviously, there are some cons for using AR and VR. For example, using of AR technology in universities and schools can be misunderstood by some students and may encourage them not to study outside the class. And the most important problem of it is perception of reality. Everyone knows about “Matrix” and “Big Brother” as ways to control people.
In conclusion, I think that all technology breakthroughs are totally positive and useful, but we have to realize all consequences of using it, before start massive manufacturing.
