All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies.
It is really hard to disagree with this statement
The speed of changing of our life sometimes is frightening. But is it so unusual or, would be better to say, is it the first time, when life is dramatically changed by new technologies? Of course no!
The whole story of humankind is the permanent process of making innovations and watching the way this innovations are changing the world. The Earth keeps spinning and humankind keeps trying to make the life easier and more comfortable by inventing more and more complicated technologies.  
Little changes are happening on everyday basis. But from time to time appears that one innovation which makes every side of life to step on completely new level (from the invention of the wheel in the ancient world and ending with the computer invention of the twentieth century). 
Our century is the century of technologies. We live in a world, where humankind and technologies are inseparably intertwined and this connection won’t get weaker. I can’t imagine my life without my smartphone, without internet and the bunch of other things that our century is offering. And I’m definitely not the only one. Technologies are offering us so many opportunities that our parents back to the days when they were young couldn’t even imagine. I still remember when about 15 years ago my father bought first in our family mobile phone. He was wondering if someday it would be possible to listen to music with the phone or making photos. Then he predicted that in nearest future every person, even little kid will have mobile phone. So he was quite right.
But it is the narrow-minded view of the technologies. Technologies are providing us much more than just opportunity to taking selfies and chatting with friends in social networks. The number of fields for using technologies is countless :Education – now the only thing you need to attend the lectures of greatest universities is a computer with internet; Medicine and healthcare – new technologies that are helping to diagnose diseases on early stages, carry out the operation at a distance  and etc. Some scientists are predicting that in nearest future it will be possible to print organs for transplantation with a 3d printer ; Communication – I beg 40 years age people wouldn’t believe that it will be possible to speak with someone who is on the other continent. 
There is no enough time to describe all advantages and disadvantages of technologies. I just want to say that we need to remember that every invention was made to make our life easier and happier and it is in our hands to decide how to use technologies.   
