All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies.

After viewing of the presentation of Chris Kluwe, I had had positive feelings. We will consider everything separately what he spoke in video about.

As such technology as Google Glass and a camera of GoPro can be useful to sport. It is valid it is very strongly developed to a sport infrastructure. I agree that this additional reality will repeat to the viewer more feelings, will improve quality of broadcasts of a match. In some case it can turn also an outcome of this match. How?
Not subforce everything to notice the referee, exactly there where points can be included, and the winner who will become history of this sport can be declared. History it will be written correctly. Where everything will be fair. 
Example: There is an example of such unfair outcome of a match. It was the well-known match which has taken place on June 22, 1986 at stadium of "Aztec" in Mexico City. As a result of a match Argentina has overcome England with the score 2:1, both goals in gate of English national team were scored by Maradona, and both goals have become history. And in three minutes before, in the 51st minute, Maradona has clogged with a hand one of the best-known football heads which has become history under the name "God's hand". Both historical goals of Maradona had crucial importance for team of Argentina since as a result she has won the World Cup 1986, having overcome in the final German national team (3:2). 20 years later he admitted that he has hammered a ball with by hand.
And the technology will bring money in your business. Broadcasts of such matches will rise by new level, in a consequence demand for viewing of such broadcastings will grow. Audience will be very happy. Among them there are those which would like to play. By means of this technology he will be able to feel what is felt by the player running across the field.

Such helmet which is shown on video will create conveniences for online of lectures. Maybe even this technology will lower crime.
It is simple to put on these glasses on the victim and to play scenes with it that attack her, want to hurt or in  to kill. This chamber will remove everything that the victim has endured. And to show this video in the tyurmakh, in colleges. After viewing of video, pupils future criminal also can, later time will come up against such situation that he should attack the person for the benefit, he can will remember that video and to stumble. It can save to the person life. Let it will be small percent that it will help, but nevertheless it is.

