All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies.
People can hardly imagine their lives without modern technologies nowadays. All spheres of our life – sports, education, health care are influenced by development of new technologies. Some people who are engaged in scientific society claim that all walks of life will change significantly with the coming of new technologies. The aim of this paper is to overview what changes are possible in the nearest future in such spheres of human life as medicine and sports. 
It is necessary to draw attention on the strong speech of Eric Dishman who has affirmed that current system of health care is ineffective and obsoleted. The speaker believes that it is time to update our thinking about modern medicine. Such places of supporting of human health as hospitals and clinics are the worst tool for this aim because of hospitals are sometimes unsafe places to send our sickest patients, especially in an era of superbugs and hospital-acquired infections. To prove this Eric Dishman has given his own example of hospitalization. The longer he stayed in the hospital, the sicker he became, and more expensive it became. Unfortunately, such situation happens to thousands of people all over the world every year. Thus, it is advisable to use home treatment as much as possible. It will not only allows to keep money and, but provide personalized approach for treatment. Moreover, it is more comfortable for patient to stay home, avoiding stressful atmosphere of clinics.
Another problem of this research is devoted to using of new technologies in sports. It is should be noted that the development of new sports technologies is important not only for professional sportsmen but and for their supporters and fans. Cris Kluwe thinks that adoption of such new technologies as Google Glass and GoPro will make the watching of sports events more spectacular and visited. Necessity of using of new technologies is explained by Cris Kluwe with help of one simple reason – fans want to feel such experience than professional sportsmen feel.
To sum up, it should be noted that new technologies will make human life safer and more interesting. People need some changes in many spheres of their life. 
 


 
