All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies

The world of technologies has already dramatically changed the entire life of people. And in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies the life will change even more (at least Google Glass is coming for sure). The new technologies are not just inventions of scientists that have nothing in common with real life. What we get now from scientists are applied technologies that are gradually becoming an inseparable part of our life. We could hardly imagine our life without the Internet, different gadgets. We cannot imagine our medicine without up-to-date equipment that makes possible complicated surgical operations. And this is just the beginning of the new era.

People have different attitude towards the technological boom in our life. Some of them try to protect themselves from modern technologies pretending that they are independent from technologies. Their concerns are understandable. From one point of view it seems that technologies will make everything possible in the nearest future. Who knows, maybe one day we will be able to see the visualized dreams of other people.  But from the other point of view technologies will make everything not real. For instance, what the scientists introduce to the public right now is not even virtual reality but augmented reality. The reality that we have always known may cease to exist in the nearest future. Technologies change not only the form of our life but the substance. It affects the very essence of human being. And it’s scary. 

The appearance of new technologies raises a lot of ethical questions especially in the medicine, eg. IVF. With each passing day it becomes more difficult to answer the question: what is the field of human activity but what belongs to the divine (if you are kind of believer) that cannot be invaded by the technologies. 

I’m pretty sure that all walks of life are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies. And I’m really concerned with the moral quality of that future. Could we still be ourselves?
