Our society has been constantly developing since ancient times. What had seemed impossible and even hard to imagine for our predecessors (for example, Internet, computers or just cars), is normal and often used nowadays. Development is the key to civilization success and it almost always leads to something new and good. 
I am entirely sure that all the scientific inventions shall be applicable in various spheres of our life, mostly in social sphere. The conception of “science for science” may have been alright when people had just started to develop and invent but nowadays science ought to be helpful. The most necessary and requiring walks of life in the social sphere are, of course, health care and education. And these spheres are going to change dramatically in the nearest future because of new technologies for the following reasons.
First, it’s necessary to point out that most countries of the world now set themselves up as social states which means an enhanced care for the parts of social sphere. Therefore a big part of scientific inventions not only in field-oriented areas (like pharmaceutical researches for healthcare of psychological – in education) but also various IT products are dedicated to social sphere development. That’s why the conceptions of most modern states create a fruitful ground for implementation of new technologies in all spheres of life especially in the social one. 
Then, speaking about some precise examples of new technologies changing our lives I’d like to describe one fascinating “tool” called augmented reality (AR). That is described as the integration of digital information with the user's environment in real time, basically it blurs the line between reality and virtual world and helps people to feel walking on someone else’s shoes. Form the first sight AR seems pretty entertaining but nothing else but it’s a wrong impression. Even now (when the AR isn’t developed enough) people begin to use it for very important purposes in different walks of life. For example, in the sphere of education - Karen Schrier, a history teacher, experienced with her students Reliving the Revolution AR game that helped them to feel and understand better all the events of USA Independence War, even be like a soldiers. Or Japanese students enjoy the first generation of AR textbooks by Tokyo Shoseki while learning English that also widens their horizons and significantly changes the ways and methods of learning. The thing is that using new technologies have already changed the way of learning and with AR teachers don’t have to bend over backwards to describe some historical events in the best words or to make the students imagine some physical processes – now they can just let the students experience all those things first-hand. What’s more, AR can be useful for education in psychological purposes – to make a bully experience his actions first-hand, for example. AR can significantly the way of watching and playing sports – let the football fan experience Leo Messi’s feelings when he is going to kick a goal and let the football player better see all the football field and his passing opportunities via Google Glass, for instance. All those small things change the whole picture and the way of doing different things hence change our lives.
In the sphere of health-care new technologies seem to be even more actual because you can see their practical usefulness almost immediately. Going through tomographic diagnostics has already become familiar to us but what about, for example, having your personal ultrasonography tool which can transfer data (you get anywhere with your own hands and smartphone) to your doctor in online regime? That sounds amazing, isn’t it? However, some people are sure that it’s not a technology changing our lives it’s people who do that. Eric Dishman in his TED speech told a lot about his own healthcare and about doctors’ mistakes nevertheless ended by the words like “we have to help each other no matter what devices exist and can be used by us”. He was grateful to the woman given him a kidney to far more extent than to the device helping to diagnose his disease. But he also mentioned the necessity of team playing in health care and I totally agree with that. Caring about the own health should be a primary goal of each person but alone and without any technical devices he or she will be aidless.
So I am sure that technologies can and will change our lives dramatically but we also should do everything for wide and effective using of them.
