Debates on English
Essay
Shulga Yulia
Public Policy Department,
1-year Master Student 

All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies.

This essay discusses the increasing and emerging role of new technologies in the development of changes in sports, education, health care and many others in the nearest future. The way technology has impacted our lives is evident in every walk of life. 
The process of Globalization starts with development of new technologies and Internet gave us a great possibility to integrate different people from varies countries, nations, cultures, and governments into one global melting pot. And develop and integrate new technologies in our casual life. Now we cannot imagine our life without smartphone with Internet, messenger, or social network. Some of us use different platforms like Coursera to study, and to take a knowledge from the best universities of the world. The impact of technology on education is a good example of the way our life have changed.
With the Internet, telecommunications, cell phones like smartphones, handheld wireless mobile devices and other communication technologies , geographically dispersed workers can now interact and collaborate as though they all were located together in a downtown high-rise. 
Such technologic things in one hand make our life easier and better with a possibility to communicate all around the world, with a possibility to take consultation from the medics worldwide, etc. The concurrence between different instructions provided their services worldwide are growing. And a level of specialist is growing too. 
I am a professional athlete. And sometimes it's difficult to find very professional high-level trainer in Russia. Nowadays sometimes I use a camera, wireless internet to make a webcast in internet where a trainer abroad can help me and give some advises online. We are no need to flight to another country to take a good quality's consultation just use a youtube and skype call. Networking to personal online dating, communications was never so fast and easy in any century, as it is now. 
In other hand, in the part of disadvantages I would like to notice a problem of cyber security and misusing of technologies. Nowadays cyber security is becoming a global issue, governments of all countries are trying to make rules and laws regarding cyber access. Moreover, lifestyle habits have changed drastically. Nowadays, psychologists are frequently using the term «internet addiction» to address certain issues in the lives of people who are glued to their gadgets. This «internet addiction» could involve a hypodynamie, addiction to games, and other things that are «unuseful».
To say how all walks of live are changed we should understand that it's depend on us, how we use new technologies (to improve ourselves or only for entertainment) and benefit from instead of getting addicted to it.


