We live in a constantly changing world where things turn upside down every day. There are a lot of arguments whether new technologies bring us a better life or, vice versa, destroy our society but we must admit that all spheres of our life change dramatically as the new technologies step forward. 
On the one hand, we can observe how health care is developing. It is well known that doctors can already create artificial inner organs and maybe even implant it into human bodies, not sure about it. There are some talks about home health care so that people can use modern devices technologies and talk to their doctors via Skype or something like this so there is no need in going to hospitals, waiting in queues, getting poor treatment and so on and so forth. 
On the other hand, cloning ideas still bother innovators’ brains. This is already the question of ethics and consequences of this technology.
Let’s have a look at education. Well, now we can see examples of novelties implemented to schools and universities. We have an opportunity to visually show coloured slides, to bring our laptops to classes and use it, not to bring loads of heavy textbooks with us. But there are debates if these technologies are so useful that we should give up reading books printed on paper and handwriting. 
What concerns sports I can’t fully agree with Chris Kluwe who says that fans want  to be with players on one field and that augmented reality can help them with that. Well, OK, they will get fun but it’s totally different angle of observation. If they want to play football or something else themselves then OK, just go to the stadium and do it. When Olympic games were firstly invented the whole thing was about spectacle. Moreover, we don’t know exactly how augmented reality influences human brain and whether it can do any harm to our consciousness.
To be honest, I’m not very optimistic about our future. I don’t like video games and augmented reality attractions. But I do believe that new technologies can help us fight serious diseases and make education more interesting for pupils and students. In conclusion I would like to say that whether we like it or not new technologies will change our life dramatically, we must admit it.
