The era of technological development brings a lot of advantages for humanity in almost every field of live. Most people around the world are witnesses of an enormous growth in sport, education and entertainment industries stimulated by technologies. One of the examples is augmented reality - a new word in IT. The phenomena of interactive experience enhance the most important walks of our life such as education, health systems and entertainment. 
It is a well-known fact that educational system around the world needs some conversions. The reasons of this unpleasant situation are difficulties with the process of students’ motivation. Many of my course mates complain that our education doesn’t prepare us for real life. With the help of augmented reality this problem can be successfully solved. Imagine the situation where professor could show during the lectures the translation from economic forum, medical operation or even from the Space. The modeling of all this processes which gives students an opportunity to choice in real time is even more exiting. This will combine entertainment and education and involve students. 
Another inspiring example of what new technologies could bring in our life is the transformation of health system. Ten years ago nobody could imagine that with the help of computer patients could find a treatment from their diseases prescribed by the doctor from the other side of the globe.  It even becomes possible to diagnose some problems distantly. 
The last but not least are changes in entertainment industry. Games, videos with realistic landscapes with 3D or 5D effects could afford possibility to travel without money and even during the work day for everybody.  If you always dream of face to face meeting with your famous actor, musician or historic figure you could do it with the use of augmented reality. Almost every experience that is not affordable due to different circumstances starting from fear and ending with physical distortions could become an everyday opportunity with the new technologies.
To sum up, in our modern world nothing becomes impossible because of creating of a new technologies and new methods in almost every field of life. The progress reached in economics, politics, education, entertainment, health and transport system are mainly provided by new technologies. The speed and the quality of our evolution depend on technological progress. 
