We can’t imagine our life without innovations over the past thirty years. Everybody has mobile phones, use Facebook and laptops, US scanning is available in each hospital, submit documents to the court passing the line through the Internet. 
People are always quickly get used to things that improves their life and the process of new technologies development goes very fast. The first iPhone was introduced in 2007, almost 10 years ago. What about first computers, mobile phones, social networks? All of these inventions appeared more than 15 years ago, and today we can’t imagine our life without laptops at work, mobile phone with large buttons for your grandmother, selfies of your friends in Instagram, and news feed on Facebook which you are reading every morning with your iPhone 6S cleaning your teeth. It is reality, today people do not use the best invention of the first half of the 20th century – Television, news from news feeds, interesting videos Youtube and so on. Rather socialized person will be not able to survive in forest without Internet connection (Russians - exception). That is the point why we spend so much money on our brand new smartphones, smartwatches, smartglasses and so-smart-on.
 And, that is good, really, it helps developers invent so much new technologies. I’m sure, that in the next five years we will talk freely with your phone or laptop (even this-kind essay will be talked not typed). Appearance of electric cars will help us to safe our environment (but not the Russian economics), they are very quiet and very cheap in use. Even the inventions of google in self-driving cars are astonishing. There is no steering wheel or anything like that, you need to sit into the car, tell the address you need to go, and confirm the route which is made for your trip. That is all, relax and spend time on your deeds. Perfect! 
The next most important invention which is going to be introduced is hacking the genome code. These invention provides us the comprehensive spec of your organism. It solves the main problem medical treatment – diagnostics diseases. Practically everybody in this world faced with a situation where different doctors have different diagnoses in one disease. That is a real problem when you are treated for a nonexistent disease. It’s a pity, but usually after that everything becomes more confusing and complicated. To my mind, widespread adoption of this technology is the most expected invention of the nearest future.
Returning to the subject of the economy and the development of innovation it should be noted that everybody knows that oil and gas addict economics a not really interested and ready for competent investment in new technologies. That is a really big problem for Russia, because we can’t earn from new technologies, so we need to invest in science manually: it is not so effective in comparison with British or Japanese model of non-government financial investment in technologies.  I’m sure that today we absolutely need to reform our economic and labor system. A good example is the experience of South Korea and Japan (not China): these economics were developed without such dope as dollar printing machine or military aggression in the oil-producing countries. 
So, new technologies. What it is? The XX century shows us that new technologies are the way of our life: it is the main engine of current economic. And, at the same time, we can say that economics is also the main engine of science and, of course, new technologies. That is the main principle of our modern life, the mail idea of our society.
Alexandr Yaltsev
