Let me give definition of the word “technology” What is that? What is technological revolution?
It’s generally agreed today that technology is a body of knowledge devoted to creating tools and producing of goods and services. Nowadays humanity use technology to accomplish various tasks in daily life and I can surely say that it plays one of the essential role in our world. Times are changing and industries aren’t eligible to stop for exploring new technologies. Owing to the leading companies we can feel technological revolution how it penetrates to our life and performs a lot of functions.
One cannot deny that there have been several technological revolutions which made our life easier. One of the first and essential industrial revolutions is replaced handwork with the machines. Owing to the machines humans started to produce goods much quicker. Another bright example of revolution is Google glasses, Oculus. These inventions add an augmented reality to consumer to perform his tasks more quickly and rationally. What is more, these glasses are perfectly suited for schools and universities to get inspired in science. The glasses can contribute to the sport industry as well. Progressively, helmets will be replaced by these glasses and player can contact with his coach during the important moment of game. There are a lot of examples of new technologies how are the going change our life.
Technological revolutions change the quality and rhythm of life but one should not think only about their positive sides, as there are many serious disadvantages, like risks and sacrifice. A number of key issues arise from the statement. For instance, unemployment.  Modern technologies has replaced many humans in developed countries. Many firms have employed robots on production lines to increase production and efficiency, for example Amazon decided to replace workforce by robots.  According to Gertrude Stein:  Everybody gets so much information all day long that they lose their common sense. As a result, here we can conclude that humanity starts to loosing common-sense, expressing their ideas. Humans eligible to rely on their smartphones.
