All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies.
Our civilization is a result of constant process of evolution and also thousands revolutions. Before, all that revolutions took really big amount of time and everybody understood that they do not face with a great new technology or any other big shift more than once in their life. But what about us? We are lucky generation. The world around us is shifting so fast as never before. We have an opportunity to see constant world changes – all we remember how cell phones came to usual people life, how Internet changed the ways we study, work, communicate, and also relax. If we speak about sport – ok, we have already been able to watch a sport translation in the Internet whenever we want; Internet can also help us to learn how to move for example in hockey game. New technologies have already changed dramatically all our lives and there is no ways that the technologies will stop to do it in the future. No, but these changes will become even more quickly.
Of course, we will face with negative effects of usage technologies so much but nobody is able to stop the progress. We can only accept it and try to use it in a positive way. For example, with technologies people can learn empathy, get more personal health care or enhance augmented reality development labs. In the videos that we watched to write this essay we can see the great examples of new opportunities. But as for me these examples are just one more step to something we cannot even imagine right now.
To sum up, I want to say that of course the walks of our lives can never be the same – the world is changing and we have already stayed in the point where we cannot return. Everything is changing dramatically right now. All we need is to be sure that we can handle with information overload. Actually, I am really inspired that augmented reality and all other technologies can be available for me and my family one day.  
