
All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies.

    Student : Shakarmamadov Azizmamad
      Today the development of new technologies undoubtedly  made a huge changes ia all spheres of our life including education and health care. New technologies made the time and space shorter than it was before, thus accelerating some activities. 
       If we will pay attention into the  education, we can see that there are a lot of changes made by new technologies.  As we know  the power of  traditional system of education in schools and universities is still exists , but   new technologies  already spread in all parts of our world in very short period and got the attention of the majority by suggesting  people a huge source of education online. The invention of computer itself was a great breakthrough in education, and today programmers are working to create educational applications and computer programs which will suggest more opportunities for the people in the nearest future. 
       As practice showed, people who are very busy and can not physically attend the courses at the university or other places, now they can do their tasks or other duties by using new technologies. I  know some people personally who are taking online-courses and passing their exam online and they admitted that new technologies undoubtedly have changed their life and made it easier.  
        The expected  changes in health care with the use of new technologies are very interesting and at the same time are unbelievable. According to the scientists from  America and India, in the near future they will invent new technology which they are going to use to perform an operation on kids who have heart diseases  at the time of birth with minimal loss of blood. 
      The other example is cancer.  As we know cancer disease is one of the widespread disease everywhere in the world, and a lot of sick people tried to overcome this disease but unsuccessfully. And now some  scientists claimed that in the near future by the help of new technology the can cure the sick people. 
  To sum up I want to say that all these changes are not the end, as new technologies is developing every day  it will change our life dramatically in the nearest future. 

 




