Could people from  20th century imagine that I can sit in the class and write my essay by using a laptop without any pens and papers?
Even in the beginning of 21st century people couldn’t think that I can attend all classes sitting in my apartment via internet.
Today people have so many innovations that made our life easier. It affected on education, sport, health care and other fields.
Nowadays people tend to use them as much as they can. As I mentioned before the educational environment became more interactive. There are many tools for student of different  majors.
For instance, Khanacademy.org is a known web site for studying. It is a free for everyone. Here is the information about this service taken from site “Khan Academy offers practice exercises, instructional videos, and a personalized learning dashboard that empower learners to study at their own pace in and outside of the classroom”
 They provide users lecture and presentation of math, science, economics and finance and so on. 
The main point of such educational environments is to give an opportunity for people who can’t attend classes or for those who want to improve their knowledge just sitting at home. 
Nowadays there are known a lots of educational interactive services asAugmented Reality Development Lab, PhysicsPlayground, MITAR Games and so on.
 For me, as for a student of applied physics, it gives an opportunity to see three-dimensional environment of experiments of physics.
What about health care? It did a big step in last few years. There are a lot of reasearches in a medicine.
For example, Erick Deshman who does health care research for Intel. He was studying how new technology can solve big problems of heaths care. In his speech of TED talks he mentioned  about reform in medicine, that gives an opportunity for  home care via using technologies. It means that in the nearest future people can evaluate their physical condition without attend any doctors. Moreover, in the future we can determine our sicks effectively.
However all that technologies  need  the opportunity cost. It’s a big disadvantage of that kind of innovations. Because there are a lot of average people who couldn’t  allow them such an expensive tools.
To sum up today’s topic i want to mention that all technologies moving forward and it will take time for flawless and pure practice.
 
