Augmented reality is one of the latest technological developments that could probably be the most revolutionary one; something as innovative and with such a huge and radical impact as the Internet, something that can change our lives and the way we understand and assimilate them entirely.
But how does this amazing invention work? Augmented reality consists of a set of devices that add virtual material to the existing physical information we are living in, namely supplementing a virtual synthetic part to our reality. 
This represents an incredible tool for the human beings. It allows people to have a genuine and live experience of any kind of events. For instance, nowadays, when we are discussing and trying to share our experiences, we need to describe them to the others; these people might understand or not what we are talking about, but with the help of augmented reality this is not a problem; people can place themselves in our shoes and get the whole picture of what we actually mean; sensing by themselves and even being able to make their own conclusions.
Augmented reality, for being such an extraordinary instrument, can be used, not only to help us understand other people’s experience. For example, in the educational field, where it can be used by people of all ages, allowing them to get knowledge on diverse sciences and learning through entertainment such as interactive visits to museums or national parks. With help of this tool, people could also have a deeper understanding of other cultures and realities. Besides, it promotes and fosters people’s imagination and creativity and develops their skills in terms of exploration and discovery since it presents a three-dimensional experience where they are the main characters.
Something very important to mention is that Augmented Reality particularly differs from virtual reality, since it does not replace our physical reality; it simply overlays computer information to our real world. This is why it can even be used in the health field. Eric Dishman, in his speech Health care should be a team sport criticizes the health system as being expensive, uncomfortable and inefficient, and proposed Care networking as an alternative, where, with help of this kind of technologies and the assistance of a health team, people can get quality treatments from their home.
Finally, I would like to claim that Augmented Reality is an incredibly useful tool that can contribute in our lives in many spheres, such as the social, economic, political and even environmental one. And as Chris Kluwe states during his speech, How Augmented Reality will Change Sports ... and Build Empathy: The questions we ask, the choices we make and the challenges face are, as always, up to us. It is up to us, to the human kind, to use tools like this in a positive way, contributing to our world, without making an addiction of them, which can turn these opportunities into limitations. We should always keep in mind that first of all we are humans and that our reality should not be replaced, but complemented and improved.

REFERENCES:
http://www.ted.com/talks/chris_kluwe_how_augmented_reality_will_change_sports_and_build_empathy

http://www.ted.com/talks/eric_dishman_health_care_should_be_a_team_sport
