“A degree, whatever university degree, is still worth it no matter what the future holds for us” 

seems to be the motto of the young nowadays. The issue of easy access to university that once 

used to be for the privileged few, yet now is a presumed right for all has been the subject of a 

heated debate lately.

I personally consider higher education to be an intellectual achievement of the few not a 

commodity of everyone. Indeed, the culture of accessibility of higher education begins with the 

simple fact that among those going to university there are many who probably should not. An 

uncomfortable truth is that even with the best professors, not all of the freshmen will finish their 

courses. So with respect to taxpayers, I believe it is unfair, even cruel, to encourage people with 

no capacity to achieve decent grades to enter a university as higher education is rather expensive, 

particularly its rapidly expanding private sector is.

Moreover, it isn’t even the best quality. It must be admitted that the growth in graduate numbers 

and diverse university courses has actually diminished the quality of a university degree. I think 

we should be very alarmed that there is no simple solution that will effectively eliminate the gap 

between the capabilities of students and the academic demands of the universities. But otherwise 

corruption and exploitation would ensue in the form of widespread cheating, plagiarism, falsified 

documents, ghost-writing and diluted academic standards. 

Next, we should acknowledge the unlimited availability of higher education has created 

conditions where the job market is being flooded with graduates seeking jobs in industries which 

do not need them. Indeed, the rate of employment for graduates with no experience is falling off 

a cliff. At the same time, more than 50 per cent of graduates are doing non-graduate jobs so they 

don’t need the education they got to do what they do.

The other side of the coin is that hindered by too few skilled workers in areas such as agriculture, 

personal services, building and construction and traditional trades, we cannot hope to meet the 

basic demands of our populace properly. Because at the end of the day, as much as we need 

people to sit atop the dreaming spires, we still need someone to wire them and to make sure their 

toilets flush. As for me, I don't think I can cope with doing my own plumbing... 

At last, the labour market experts warn that the supply of skilled workers may “vanish into 

history” if looming budget cuts in vocational post-secondary education and the unchecked 

expansion of universities are allowed to continue. The loss of a valuable source of technicians 

and mechanics damages and affects the nature of the industrial structure of any country. 

The possible ways out are to increase funding post-19 vocational education to increase the output 

of higher technician-level qualifications as well as to make it harder to enter a university. If you 

are a 19-year-old and the choice is between a declining number of places in struggling 

institutions being insufficiently funded, or open doors at another institution with uncapped ability 

to recruit, where are you going to go? Another possible solution is to encourage school-leavers 

who want to move into trades to do that without making them feel that they're somehow less 

important or inferior to those at universities in ability or status. 

Overall, a university degree is worth it unless it is misused.
