It is common today to hear that modern technology has changed our lives. We use technology everyday: we pay by credit card and check our bank accounts by a smartphone; we cook using a microwave oven or a multicooker; we download films, music, and even books. It is fantastic! But I would like to turn your attention at the fact that this is just a beginning.
It is easy to see that every year our smartphones get smarter, thinner, and faster. It is less obvious that medical techniques are improving but we understand that it is so. However we do not think that new devises are coming. It is the beginning of a new era of portable gadgets and augmented reality. I propose you to imagine how it can influence our lives:
In the medical sphere we will have lots of portable devices; it will allow us to take care of ourselves better. Moreover, doctors will be able to check their patients at any time and at any place. Also, it will be easier for people who live in distant place to get professional help. You can watch the speech of Eric Dishman in which he is showing an ultrasound device created by Mobisante. With the help of this device hi is checking his kidney and consult with his doctor who is in another city.
If we are talking about sport, this field will be changed, too. Besides the techniques for health care and curing, sport will be integrated with devices helping to follow a game or a competition. Referees will use it to check fouls, and athletes will correct their work during their performances without any help. Some people think that sport will not be sport anymore, because sport is about demonstrating your abilities as they are. But athletes use different kinds of tools and implements even today, and technique can help them to break new ground.
Finally, our education can become better. Pupils will be able to explore the whole word from the bottom of an ocean to the top of the mountains, even our galaxy is not the scope! Students could experience their future profession using virtual reality and watch a respected professional doing his work with in the first-person side with a help of augmented reality. It will be available even for those who is not able to come to see it personally.
In conclusion I want to say that the developing of new technology certainly can lead us to a brand new world and extend our boundaries. I propose you to become a part of these wonderful changes!
