All walks of life – sports, education, health care and many others- are going to change 

dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies. 

For many years technology has made people’s life more proficient. Any new inventions 

and innovations touch every aspect of our lives, these devices change the way we work, live, 

study, and technology will continue to affect people. Walks of life are going to change 

dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies. Let us consider three 

areas: sports, education, health. 

To begin with health, future medical technology breakthroughs will root from the 

incredible progress made in nanotechnology, biotechnology and other scientific and technical 

areas. Emotional and physical control devices, brain-computer interface, robotic surgery, 

growing sells, artificial immune system are tomorrow’s medicine. I’m glad that technology 

development helps to fight diseases and to improve health.

Also, new technologies will open the door pillars of personal health: care anywhere, care 

networking, care customization. The future of personal health must occur at home as the default 

model, not in hospital. Networked devices will help us to take care of ourselves anywhere. The 

technologies that are coming, high-performance computing, analytics, big data will allow us to 

build predictive models for each of us as individual patients. 

Secondly, technologies will change sports field. These are new opportunities for 

improvement of physical abilities, virtual training, controlling your physical state. Virtual 

training comes down to what’s known in the field of vitality as presence, psychological 

phenomenon of feeling like you’re actually inside the simulation. Such realism is possible by 3D 

modeling or video-game effects, for example, you can feel like an actual player on the football 

field playing spots. It helps to train attention and reaction. I think, it’s a great workout.

The world of sports will continue to change and evolve more devices and more players 

that are integrally connected to the Internet. Sport will be a part of internet network, which will 

contribute to the creation of a new kind of sports.

Moreover, technologies are important in education sector too. The main goal is to create 

education which encourages students to read more, learn from anywhere in the world. These 

future technologies are being created to be user friendly and affordable to any students. 

The future classroom will be digitized: teachers and students will use less or no paper and 

chalk. In future digitized classrooms each student will have a personalized computer and all 

lessons will be conducted with education tools displayed on the electronic interactive board. It 

helps to perceive knowledge easier and faster. 

In addition to this, new generation will use devices in education: students will learn using 

smartphone apps, education games. In my opinion it’s more efficiently, than a traditional way of 

learning, because devices expand opportunities of education. 

Drawing in conclusion, I would like to say, I’m absolutely convinced that new 

technologies have changed our life greatly, and it is a positive change. I have described 

modernization in 3 areas in my essay, and I believe that future technologies make our life more 

comfortable, safe and interesting.
