Information Technologies became more and more important today not only for business and government, but also for personal health and well-being of each man. They are used everywhere: entertaining, transport schemes, online learning, almost each hospital (even in Russia) has its own website, we use smart watch to wake up in the morning during the right sleep phase and take smartphones everywhere we go - even in unorthodox places. And can you imagine that  5 years ago we have not even heard about them! 
I just want to say that our life is being changed from year to year. Nevertheless, some people feel the extra-need (not just a wish, but the real need) for developing work-life balance, for reaching new levels of amusement and so on. ‘It would be nice to have a personal doctor, more exciting football games on TV or inspiring platforms for personal creative implementation’, they think. 
Today we have already had such technologies as GoPro, Google Glass, Oculus Rift or we can visit any museum by the web. Google has many services, which help us to do that. For instance, The Google Art Project is a collective work between Google and some of the most famous museums. The most successful exhibitions are showed to everyone on the web, different admirable collections from 151 world-known museums are available to everyone. Just imagine! All you need is just going to the website of Google Art Project. Then you can use any museum and explore great works of art from your sofa. 
It is so inspiring to see how the humanity goes to the new era. We could achieve amazing results in sports and all types of entertainment, education and other spheres, if we implement new mechanisms and services - called augmented reality - in or life. Soon sport directors and trainers will be able to manage the information from the display on the player’s helmet together with info from wristband on the player’s hand and radio microphone from the helmet. Teams, adapted to the new rules, will start to win games; audience will begin to experience more intense emotions, because people are ready now to new feelings and emotions.  Another argument in favor of the motion is that teams should always keep up with the times and use the best technology to win games. It brings them money and makes them famous.  
To change the world today is not the fantastic idea, it is an opportunity to satisfy needs. 25 years ago we could not understand how to treat some of human diseases. Today we can have personal health system and personal doctors. We can do Ultra Sonic Testing by Skype and get doctor’s recommendations in online mode, as Eric Dishman did right at the stage during his TED talk. Our medical system was created in 1780 and we have been changing it. But we should undoubtedly continue to change it further with the coming of new technologies.
New post-IT era is coming. People should not be afraid of it, on the contrary, they should look forward to the new reality with new challenges and emotions.
