Essay
Artyom Zemtsov
Arguing in English

Many people think that new high technologies can change our world totally. I agree with two primary speakers, which talk about how develop their social life with appearance new technologies.  
I think that the introduction of new technologies is really important for the development of society and every person. In fact, human development - the development of new technologies. But new technologies developed in free and independent societies, to guarantee private property, with the perfection of social institutions and so on. 
High technologies provide new opportunities in many areas: military industry, space and sports. But science has only recently began to pay attention to human daily life, the fact that improve human life in its everyday practices.
New technologies can help the development of human intelligence, the preservation of health, better health, they help to predict human. By the improvement of the quality of life and new technologies direct and clear relationship. In societies where the preservation authorities are thinking in the first place, where only care about getting your pockets, plundering of national wealth - there will not be any new technologies.
New technologies - it is always a personal freedom, development of market relations, the development of public institutions, science and communication. It is in these emerging countries progress.
Unfortunately, new medical technologies, which said one of the speakers, is still far in Russia. Private medicine, self-diagnostics, network clinics, correspondence and other communication - it is practically impossible, because the first to be created classic infrastructure, the most basic health care institutions in Russia, and only then something more. Although to circumvent the state, that is, create your network clinics - is a great way out. A man gets a higher quality, personal approach, the sick person receives help more quickly, there is no bureaucratic component. It is very important for Russia. But, I believe that such a network medicine worked - needs a strong and competitive classical medicine. If not, then action in circumvention of state medicine, of course, exist, but they are not new. It is rather a return to the past - a fortune-teller, a church, witch doctors, traditional medicine and so on. Therefore, medicine is not possible without the network of classical medicine.
New technologies do not always involve medicine. The second speaker talked about the entertainment industry, online games, all kinds of applications, which create a new virtual reality more real. With such technologies to society need to be very careful, because technical progress is always ahead of the progress of the human mind. By using such technologies, we have to be very careful. Sometimes, virtual reality replaces the life itself. In virtual reality, invented no sincere feelings, love, real emotions, dreams, human proximity.
All of us should think about it, but for what we create one or another product, what it gives us, whether it can be used for the benefit of society and every human.
