All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies. 
How augmented reality will change sports…. and  build empathy ?
 After watching Chris Kluwe speak on how, in his opinion, augmented reality (AR) will change sports and help build empathy, I am left with mixed feelings. In what follows, I will briefly explain why that is the case. 
First of all, there is no doubt in my mind that AR will change the world of sports. Kluwe describes the potential effect this technology will have on American football — you can record and analyse footage, give real time information on the play, etc. to players, and even give real-time alerts about the actual situation on the playing field itself, helping them perform more efficiently and effectively. It is not unreasonable to say that many of these things can be applied to other sports as well. Therefore, I agree that AR will change the world of sports. One thing that is not clear, however, is whether or not it will make sports more exciting as Kluwe claims. Part of the excitement and fun actually comes from exactly the things which Kluwe says that AR will help football players avoid, e.g. helping the quarterback to avoid a “sack” (this is the term used when the quarterback is tackled in a particular way). 
This brings me to the claim about AR helping to instill empathy within people. He gives the example of bullies being shown the physical and psychological trauma they can cause, for instance. Also, in typical American spirit, he tries to emphasise his own worldview by mentioning the plight of gays in Russia and Uganda. My only problem with this claim is that when we see footage using AR, the actual physical and psychological threat that the victim experiences is almost totally absent. Sure, AR will allow us to see what the victim goes through audiovisually in pristine detail, but we will never experience what the victim actually goes through on a personal level, especially given the fact that for a lot of victims, the experience stays with them for their entire lives — for us it will just be a clip in HD. This will make it extremely difficult to fully empathise with the victims fully. To give an example, we have all seen clips/pictures from the Bagram airbase and Guantanamo and even ISIS videos, and most people do experience empathy for the victims, but it is just fleeting. So, will AR make people empathise somewhat with the victims? Certainly. Will it change the entire human race in terms of increasing their empathy towards their fellow humans? I doubt it.  
Health care should be a team sport
Eric Dishman’s opinion about and approach to health care are both fascinating. We have all heard of cases where there is negligence and “guesswork” on the part of doctors, and that often leads to grave consequences for patients. One thing was particularly interesting for me — his description of patients as being passive. While, in retrospect, I know that that is true in most cases, I have never looked at the matter from that angle. And I agree that part of the problem lies in the fact that most patients are passive guinea pigs for the doctors. 
If there is a system in place similar to that based on Dishman’s model, that will certainly improve health care and the quality of life of thousands of patients across the globe. Portable technologies can and are rapidly changing every aspect of human life. If the ultrasound device Dishman showed is any indication, people can perform tests on themselves on the go and become active parts of their own health care system. Treatments based on a person’s personal genome should be even more revolutionary. And all this will radically change the health care system. 
However, there is a flip side. The patient can do the basic tests themselves but the interpretation of and the diagnoses based on those tests still have to be done by experts, not by machines or by the patients themselves. Artificial intelligence, I think, is still not advanced enough to replace a real, fully trained doctor. In other words, doctors and experts are indispensable. 
Furthermore, in order for the model to work, you need to have sufficiently many doctors and experts willing to work based on Dishman’s model. This brings me to one of the things Kluwe mentioned in the other video, that sports is a multi-billion dollar enterprise. Well, so is the health care system, and many experts will be simply unwilling to work on Dishman’s model. Why work on Dishman’s model when you can potentially earn much more with your private practice? And no, it is not very fruitful to argue that it is more moral with such people. This is true not only of individuals, but also entire societies, especially capitalist societies — profits need to be maximised, and I think that Dishman’s model will not do that. 
Finally, I think that the model is not feasible in the short term. Many of these technologies will take several years to perfect and even more time for the costs for their utilisation to come down to what the average patient can afford.  


