Essay
Kotyagin Kirill
Augmented reality

In this essay I would like to share my opinion concerning augmented reality. The are five part in my essay. In first part I describe what the Augmented reality is. Than formulate motion or key question in this field. In Third part of this essay I introduce my opinion concerning this issue. In Fourth I prove my opinion with argument for issues. Finally, I discuss some disadvantages and risk that might be concerned.
Augmented reality is similar to Virtual Reality except it seeks to enhance your perception of the real world and is not a fantasy place. Virtual Reality get you in some virtual word, that has no connection with real word. Augmented reality affords you to use real-time information from some technical devises for making decision in your every day live.
 To my mind that the main question in this aria is «Will Augmented reality help people to their everyday live? ». There are advantages and disadvantages of using this new technology, we have to concern al of this.
I thin that Augmented reality will help us, make our everyday lave more interesting, exciting and even more productive. It really helps us in work, make our education more interactive, help us to engage people in our activities and so on.
There are two main arguments for Augmented reality
- It help you to make right decisions in time-limit condition. For instance, the football player will rice their performance by using special helmet (that involve sensors and plastic screen) that demonstrate best direction for next pass, location of players on the pitch and so on, color the grass with particular colors to signal about dangerous and so on.  The same things now using in military sphere, there are some indicators on the front glasses of the plane, that help pilot to make right decision without spending time to look at display.
- It make our activities more productive. There is some example from healthcare when technology (including Augmented reality) help person to cure the disease. He gets control under his health by make personal and individual approach possible. So these three pillars of personal health, care anywhere, care networking, care customization. All that become possible because of Augmented reality.
Also there are other advantages and arguments:
- It help you to rise your performance 
- It help to express and demonstrate something and also you filling, that very hard to express in word.
Also there are some disadvantages and the most one is privacy. Our personal information might be more accessible to complete strangers. When this technology will expend in our everyday live big amount of our personal date will be shared to another person and accumulates in internet and on the server. It rises the risk of information leak.
