
All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies
	
No one, I think, is challenging the view that the world is changing by technologies.    I fully agree with talking point that all walks of life are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies. 
According to Business Dictionary technologies are the purposeful application of information in the design, production, and utilization of goods and services, and in the organization of human activities.
We clearly remember   our life without smartphones and laptops but now they are our absolute necessity. Quite recently we admired that the Internet helps us to communicate with people on the far corners of the globe very quickly and cheaply, but at the same time, technologies like Google Glass are bringing the Internet closer to us than it ever has been before. Thus, we can see that Internet technologies are changing too and it will be known soon how Google Glass will influence our virtual life.
Technologies have without doubt transformed our lives into something much better. Technology has the potential to radically change the way we live, and even how we relate to each other as human beings.  For instance, technologies like 3D printing are changing manufacturing and democratizing creativity. Mobile apps are changing our behavior in using the services, with mobile commerce making up 20% of all e-commerce activity.
The dependency on technology is growing with each passing day. Owing to this great innovation in technologies, it is possible for a person to get information on any topic from anywhere at any time.
I consider that development of technologies is a necessary condition for human progress.
It would be a mistake to think that technologies will force out human reality in health care, sport, education. 
I have almost no doubt that the blueprints, models, operating manuals, prototypes, consultancy, problem-solving and training methods will be changed with the coming of new technologies.
