All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies.

Our world has dramatically changed in over last almost 30 years due to the technologies development. It has dramatically changed  in even last 10 years. It happened both in software and hardware technologies. So that we can claim that technologies proved its ability to change the world, humanity and  an individual’s life. Probably there is no person on this planet which can give good argument why new devices and software things have no impact on any walk of life. So the most disputable question in practice arises from the disagreement on a quality of such changes, i.e. if these are positive or negative. However as far as the author of this essay understood this aspect of new technologies is out of the topic.
To get an overview to the issue, the author has studied two TED performances and one text. All of them were fascinating and highly informative. Chris Kluwe told the audience the development paths for achieving the augmented reality in sports and Eric Dishman described his experience in curing the illness using advanced methods of coordination of doctor’s work (and not only) which would not be that successful without technologies. But what is the most important is that they showed (the stress is on the word “showed”) how it works. New technologies are coming soon. Even it is more correct to say that these are coming every day. Being a spectator of “Chudo tekhniki” (“Technological wonder”) TV program the author can responsibly say: these guys (producers of the TV show) have enough fresh materials to release the show weekly on Sundays.
As for me I would like to notice a condition which in my opinion  make a new technology to be a life-changing new technology. 
This condition is usefulness. New technologies really can change all walks of life in the nearest future and further if such technologies will be demanded. So this is to day, that while developing developers have even must to understand at least for them selves – what scope they are working for. New technologies can change whatever walk of life if these technologies are useful and can be easily used by a majority.
Proper usage is the second condition. It does not mean that devices of softwares must be used only and only in purposes which developer has set up. No, in contrary, people should use it consciously. They should know how it works to make the operating better and effective. If users do not apply their intellectual powers to devices or softwares, new technologies risk to fail to be life-changing.
In conclusion, I would also like to add that there is no need to divide the walks of life on those which will be affected and which will not be affected by the technologies development. New devices create new devices, it seems to be eternal process. Technologies that were used in military purposes before were modified a little bit and entered in a life of an ordinary citizen. One can say: “And please, what about relationship, soul mates and other staff of that kind”. Then the author would answer: “Have you watched movie “Her”?” In this movie it is being told the romance between the owner of the device and the software voice of device. The romance was very happy and interesting till the moment the man revealed the Voice is cheating him with the owner of another device with the same software. The example may seem ridiculous, but the question we have to answer ourselves is still the same: can technologies substitute the real life?
