Today with spreading of new technologies “real” and “virtual” are getting more and more close to each other. We can also call it “mixed reality”, that is created by using of augmented with the help of a computer elements of perceived reality. 
The most common examples of developing augmented reality can be seen in such spheres as sport, education, healthcare, etc. For instance, talking about sports, we can observe that many steps of virtualization of it have already done.  Tools like GoPro and Google Glass allow us to be not only a viewer, but also to be a participant of sport events, so we can follow step by step our favorite player, watch every moment by his eyes and to feel his emotions with him. Why is it important? First of all, because nowadays people are tempted by new and high technologies, so watching on the screen and sitting on home sofa it is not what they want, they want something more interactive. This point is also regarded to education. For example, mobile and computer technologies give many advantages to quality of education, expanding the ways of getting, processing and analyzing information. It’s also getting learning process more interesting and suitable for students who have no (or little) attention. Talking about healthcare it’s important to note that today there is no objective necessity to close patients in hospitals under the supervision of dozen of doctors. It seems to be more reasonable to provide good possibilities for development a personal health system. What does this personal health system look like? The main point of this idea is that people should have access to new technologies that can raise quality of medical service. For example, if a patient has a cancer, modern medical tools allow surgeon to know exactly where the tumor is located within the body, and thus to minimize the loss of healthy body tissue of the patient during the surgery to remove the tumor. 
To sum up, we actually can suppose that some (or a big part of them) spheres of our everyday life are going to change in an irreversible way. Augmented reality is something that will happen in our lifetime, and it will happen, because today there are all tools to make it happen.  
