
As technology is making progress and rapidly becoming a part of our everyday experience, it will be a madness not to acknowledge the impact of technology on all areas of our life. Before the digital revolution and even before the invention of radio there were other new technologies that the humanity saw and learned from. It is hard to argue that invention of new medicine and new ways of analyzing the human body changed the health care, founded the health care system and helped us prolong a human life. It took many years, from blood letting and salt mixtures to modern antibiotics and quick biopsy analyses, to change health care, yet we see the results now. It is only reasonable to assume that digital and software technologies will also change health care, as well as education, sports, science, dramatically. 
Digital technologies in the form of new concepts in health care as Care Anywhere, Care Networking and Care Customization already shows the big difference between various aspects of health care system. While new technologies, new devices, new medicine are becoming part of the whole system, the old methods of treating patients still remain there. It is evident that outdated forms of doctor-patient communications, outdated systems of treating sick people only in the specialized environment such as hospitals, outdated formulas of healing people cannot coexist with the new technologies that open new paths to healing people safer, faster, better. Globalization itself provides methods for data mining and data collecting that will help to improve the old methods, when one doctor makes a decision that a patient’s life depends upon. Digital technology allows doctors and whole health care system rely on the experience and methodology of other specialists. Apart from that, technology can provide a patient with a complex of devices to monitor health and well-being, and thus patient himself, a person who cares about his own life the most, will be a great assistance to a professional. 
Even in more entertaining areas of our activity, such as sports, the changes are coming. As sport is becoming more dependent on fans and viewers, like any other industry, new technologies will bring a viewer closer to an athlete. Sharing an experience with the use of the devices such as Google Glass and Oculus can improve the athletes’ results and – probably – can bring more money to the industry, which is a good thing for economy overall. To stop technology from pouring into our lives will only reverse the progress. If it already exists and helps, we should only let it flow and work into all spheres of our life. The changes are already happening. They only will be more visible with time. 
