If look through economist’s viewpoint, the biggest investments now in technology industry. All venture capital funds focus on hardware technology, internet and software. Investors, university professors and investment bankers predict a high growth rate in this sphere. Thus technology will develop and implement in our life. In my opinion, each new technology will be useful. For instance, we have more free time using smartphones instead if we use every time laptops to check e-mails. It was non-actual example because as you can see Google’s product such as Boston Dynamics many years working on robots or VR which was bought by Facebook. So, a lot of really amazing technological products were created for last 10 years. During my internship in summer at one of the most active Russian venture fund, where I engaged financial technology, I found out that many people in both emerging and developed capital markets are trying to improve our world and make more easier the life of billions people. A lot of startupers graduated from such universities as Harvard, Stanford, Wharton and other top universities in the world. They are the brightest minds. Thus I think all new technology will be useful for people. I trust them and their fantastic products.

I can’t imagine my life without laptop and smartphone since 2010 when I went to university (bachelor degree). It helps me in university, looking for a job, networking and just be aware what happened in economics and whole world. I think the biggest part of people agree with me. 

If we mean the internet when talking about technology, I think the internet is harmful for children and teenagers.

Technology in sport, it sounds very strange but as speaker from Ted said, fans can look at the game through sportsmen’ eyes. And the most important sphere is a health. Again about venture funds a little bit. Digital health is a one of the attractiveness sphere for investors. I think it is because of population growth and climate problems.

Finally, my viewpoint is positive and I agree that our life will dramatically change in the nearest future with the coming of new technology.  
