It is a widely accepted notion that there have been three industrial revolutions. The first one originated in Britain during the 18th century and brought us the mechanization of manufacturing industry. The second one was sparked by Henry Ford and his revolutionary idea of a moving assembly line. And the third one is supposedly happening right now and is described as digital revolution. Now, speaking as an economist, I do not anticipate the rise in output and productivity on the scale of the world economy to be higher or even the same during this third “revolution” as we’ve witnessed during the first and the second, but as a member of human race I truly am fascinated. It seems to me that the technologies that are being developed right now are way more consumer-oriented than ever before. The fast pace of development of means to play videogames is one example. A century ago it would be highly unlikely to anticipate the best technological minds of the generation to be concentrated in the entertainment industry but here we are - talking about Oculus Rift and Google Glass as revolutionary inventions. Of course, we do not only have gaming industry leaping forward with easily accessible technologies. Medicine too is becoming less about the doctor and more about the technology you are able to access. For example, portable machines that measure the glucose level in patient’s blood could be a matter of life and death for a person with diabetes. Examples of amazing technologies that we could use today are countless. Following this logic, I do not think that it is a question of what is going to happen in the nearest future. The third revolution is happening right now and we could feel the pace of it by just remembering what type of a mobile phone we had in our pockets (if it fit into one) a decade ago. But the means of production do not change now as much. We feel the technological change because we see it around us but as we are mostly unaware of how good are produced, it is not obvious that producers use more or less the same assembly line as the great Henry Ford did. So it may not be the case that changes we are witnessing right now are indeed as revolutionary as changes in means of production that took place during the 18th century, but as everyday activities are changing, people are likely to feel like they are.  
