In a modern world we used to have technologies all around us. We are using them everyday and we do not treat them as something special anymore. I think this is one of the reasons why now we don’t see how much they change all spheres of our lives. But they do change it, and they will change it even more.
Sport is a good example of how effective technologies can be for us and we will not really see it. Ten years ago such running was a simplest of the sports. You just need to run. That’s all. And all you needed was your legs and some sportwear. Not today. Modern runner uses at least three devices and two more apps on their smartphones. You have bracelets for your pulse and blood pressure, app that show your speed, number of calories you’ve burnt and your route. But then you can go one step further – to the internet reality. And you are not just running , you are competing with other runners on this route. Your facebook’s page will show your friends that you are running, they will “like” it, and you will here applause in your earphones. Because who runs without their favorite music which is chosen specially for your style of running.
This was example of how technologies have already changed the sport that that was really simple. And I’m sure they will change it even more. But  now technologies change our lives by adding something that are completely new to us. And again sports industry can show us this. 
My parent used to get angry when I have played too much videogames. They said I was wasting my time and it would not be useful for me in the future. I doubt that kids will hear this in a future, because now already cyber-sport not only a thing, but a huge industry with thousands of players and millions of dollars involved. Cyber-sport is considered to be a national sport od South Korea where players already are superstars. 
We see that people now find the way not only too improve the old activities, but as well make a new ones. And amazing thing about technologies that every new thing we invent can be used in both of this ways.
Drones might be a good example of this new technology. 5 years ago only military industry was familiar with this concept. 4 years ago more and more specialist of different spheres found a way to use them. 3 years ago they became available to masses, and today we have world championship of drones racing being held in Dubai with one million dollars prize fond.  So we gained a new tool for the thing we did before – e.g. aero-shots in cinematography – and we invented a new sport – drone racing. And all these are the products of the simple idea to combine helicopter, radio-toy, and video camera. 
I’m sure that technologies will dramatically change all aspects of our future. New technologies that we now can only dream of will soon be as usual to us as a GPS-tracker for our running sessions. The only sad thing about this is that I think there will not be any drama about it and we will treat all of this if it ought to have been so.
