Well, what I can say about that: almost all areas of live have changed already and they will continue to change thanks to new technologies. If we remember how people relaxed, received different treatments for deceases, communicated etc. we definitely should realize that it concerns to every aspects of our human being:  work, study, entertainment and others. In my opinion the high-tech is really influenced on us, our life. I can’t imagine how we can now talk to each other without using our computer, handy or social networks. We use high-tech for studying, for instance, different presentations, making reports and things like that. I can instance in each field but it is not necessary to get the point. 
But there is no limit to perfection. The materials attached to this motion force me to think that even conservative areas like medicine may modify by using disruptive technologies and make our life better. Physicians have to use 3 pillar of medical service: care anywhere, care networking and care customization.  The first 2 pillars are meant that we don’t need to be always in hospital because we can use the new technologies, for example software for our mobile phones and needful equipment, which we can use at home. The statistics show that 80% of medical mistakes are caused by the problem of communication and coordination that is why we should consider that fact. The last one tells its own tale. People have to get rid of the principle “one patient – one doctor”. The future of medicine is about team work. 
Another conservative area is sport. For example, soccer. This game was founded many years ago but it was changed not as fast as many want. But on the last World cup in Brazil there were the new technology – fixing the score.  And I believe that it is not over. 
Every time when the population got the novelty in technologies they almost always can apply in the right direction. But people must use it carefully, because sometimes it is better to employ a proven mechanism than to introduce a new one.
