All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies.

It goes without saying that modern technologies take a huge part in our lives nowdays. We use it in all spheres of our lives, such as education, science, traveling, entertainment and so on. It ena-bles us to be more potential, gives us more power but it also makes us responsible for possible outcomes. 
Let’s point out such spheres as medical care and sports. As for the former, our modern clinics and hospitals are (or are supposed to be) equipped with up-to-date instruments. Thanks to them the diagnoses are more precise, it is easier to reveal the diseases on the opening stage or even prevent them. So, we see that technologies help to save lives of many people, make it of better quality, that leads to longer life-span. Here we can note that this great news has its own pros and cons but this ethical issue is beyond the topic. 
Eric Dishman proposes to enhance the use of technologies and start curing people in-home. This proposal has both advantages and disadvantages. As for cons I can name lack of appropriate knowledge of general patients and subtle shades that can be missed by us, but that are of great importance for the diagnosis. Than, if we speak of our country, we should consider that not eve-ryone has access to the Internet, moreover, we have lots of elder people living in rural area who can not handle digital devices. 
Nevertheless, we can see certain positive aspects of the issue. First, I would like to mention the cost reduction of medical centers as the number of patients gets lower so we don’t need to much buildings and equipment as well. Then, if you don’t need to queue among ill people, your chanc-es to catch some other infection is lower too (it is especially important while flu epidemy and so on). The last, but not the least point is that in case of distant care you don’t have unpleasant communication with rude people at the reception or in a queue, so you take care of your mental balance as well. 
As for the augmented reality usage in the sport and education spheres, it is also disputable. In spite of Chris Klew’s passionate speech of being able to be into one’s shoes while using Google glass, for example, I still doubt that it enables me to feel what other people feel when they do something. Moreover, excessive use of such devices can lead to loss of real feelings, emotions, especially among children and teenagers that need socializing a lot. Devices and computers can not replace real peers but can destroy their ability to build deep and sincere relationships.
However, modern technologies can be very useful for us. In case of sport it really can help couches to think over the strategy of game, take into account different shades of situation and even understand better their fosterlings. Technologies can also boost our power of revealing the life around us, our planet and Universe, it can help to interest young children in discovering some facts, make the process more fascinating and it is proved by interactive museums, exhibitions and so on.
To sum up, I would like to say that modern technologies are inherent part of our life today, it helps us a lot in our everyday life in different spheres. It depends on us how we use it and for what goals it serves us. I think that we should be careful and thoughtful about it so that we don’t become its totally dependent slaves and do not harm our relations, health and life in general.
