In today’s In today’s world, the scientific progress concerns each field of social life.  Clearly, some researches shows that  speed of technological development is higher  than it has been ever before. What does it actually mean?  Can we imagine how our nearest future will change due to  this fact?  It should be agreed that all walks of life are going to change dramatically with the coming of new technologies. In order to prove that point of view we will take under our consideration two examples of modern technologies, which influence on different spheres shouldn’t be underestimated. 

The first one is Augmented Reality, which was invented just about ten years ago, but by now it has become a technology which helps to great number of professionals from  archeologist to soldier.  However, AR has the most significant impact on education.  Take the great variety of AR projects dedicated to education as an example. Physics Playground project enables teacher to present any physical experiment in the classroom to help pupils to understand ongoing environmental processes.

Using AR is beneficial not only for Science lessons, but for understanding  History  as well. For instance,  Reliving Revolution gives students opportunity to reconstruct Lexington Battle which took place in 1775 and even to become its participant. Another way of using AR for education purposes is driving lessons for adults. AR can simulate driving process without any danger to other people. 

According to Chris Kluwe TED speech, using  AR opens new horizons for sportsmen, coaches and fans, because it makes playing baseball or hockey even faster than now and that is why more exiting.  Also the camera inside the player’s helmet can show what is happening on the playground, enable audience feel like being players themselves.

The second inspiring technology is  Eric Dishman’s medicine reform  project. Faced the plenty of health problems himself, in his speech he shows  a new approach to organizing  medical system in general. The model he offers  is based on  three main principles: Care Anywhere, Care Networking, Care Customization.  Let’s give a short definition to each principle. Care Anywhere means that due to the modern technologies people from all over the world can get access to the best doctors. He shows how it works: he makes ultrasonography himself using portable ultrasound  and doctor consults him on Skype.  

Idea of  Care Networking is realized in social network of people who help seniors to take care of themselves.   Care Customization  is also influenced by the speaker’s own experience: in his childhood because of the wrong diagnosis  and wrong treatment he was close to death.  ”The longer I stayed n the hospital, the sicker I became,”- he says and adds: " The sacred and somewhat over-romanticized doctor-patient one-on-one is a relic of the past." Therefore,  now he offers people to be responsible for their health  and to worry not only about the longevity of life but also about its quality.  

To sum up,  these two examples of technological development can show how fast our world  changes. We can observe that changes during relatively short period of our life. It is hardly difficult to predict but we can expect not only some incidental changes In different walks of life – education, medicine, sport - but also the development  of way we behave, we think and even we feel.
