All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies.
During last two centuries, after industrial revolution, all spheres of life underwent a set of serious changes and almost all of them were a result of developing technologies. Huge impact was made on work people have to do to earn for a living, on educational system, on health care system and on many others. Nowadays progress of science doesn’t stop, it continues to transform fields of human activities in all possible ways. And it means that in the nearest future we might become the witnesses of such great alterations, but some of them are already noticeable. Here they are:
Firstly, technologies started to modify the realm of sport. New medicines try to improve sportsmen’s achievements by creating substances which are capable to sustain a high level of endurance. There also appeared new methods to measure the performances of sportsmen, which are so accurate that leave no chance to make a mistake. But, in my view, the most interesting alterations are bound to media technologies, especially those which concern the way sports events can be seen by the fans. For instance, the technology of augmented reality permits the sport supporters to feel what it means to be at the sports ground at the very moment when the stadium is full, in other words, to see the happening by the sportsmen’s eyes.
Education system faces enormous challenges as well. The most widespread design of education is the one which was formed in times of industrial revolution and therefore was relevant only to that exact time and place. Today the governments aspire to use modern technologies to make it possible to reach, for example, those groups of people who traditionally had no access to education. Technologies in education could make a great democratization effect what, no doubt, will lead to a better future.
The most significant change is going to occur in the health care. At this very moment a lot of methods of diagnostics, forecasting and treatment of illnesses which involve new technologies are accessible in ordinary hospitals all over the word and new ones are being elaborated right now.  There is an illustration to my point: technological company “23andMe” based in the U.S., give an opportunity to everyone (who can pay for the procedure) to explore your own DNA to find out where your ancestors came from or what diseases you are most likely to get in the future (in percentage). Such outstanding possibilities could be only a most courageous fantasy just ten years ago!
A lot of things we have or are aware of today were no more than fairy tales about future in the past, and they couldn’t even be imagined by people of distant times. In XXI century we still don’t know a lot, but we are looking forward to learn and to see how the future of humankind will look like.
