All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies.

During the long period of evolutionary development of the planet the history tells a lot of facts and events that took place in anytime and anywhere. All that period of time people tried to find out the rational way of acting either in socio – economic or political spheres. Making efforts to achieve the goals which are completely satisfied their need, their feelings. Today is not an exclusion it is the same but a little bit different… 
The current situation in the world is generally or partly depends on development of new technologies and further implementation of them. In political sphere of life the person who tries to become popular (ex. To win the elections in any state) uses the technological inventions like online debates via popular applications, also he/she uses mass media to spread ideas all over the state to gain more votes among the people. So it becomes thrilling , interesting or even breath – taking to the end of election competition. The mass (people) consciously or unconsciously accept the information given everywhere. Obviously nowadays at the universities of various countries there is a kind of international online debates between the students  via applications. I have an experience of participation in such debates with students from Japan. We were arguing with each other on political science feeling ourselves as ministers, speakers etc. at the same time sitting just at the classroom. We entirely got used to the role of politicians because we had had to feel it. Moreover it is the effective way of augmented education.
I am not going to discuss the health care feedback after implementation of new technologies because it is clearly that people are waiting for more and more inventions which could cure serious diseases. However I have noticed one point that really worths the consideration. By developing the new technologies in health care some people try to observe their flaws and show off it to the media using it as the way of supporting mentally those people who unfortunately have the same health problems. I do not know whether it is good or not but it seems to me notorious.
As for sports, yes, it is definitely going to be changed. Historically in ancient Rome people observed the fights between gladiators to see the death or charity, each of them depended on major decision. People felt themselves like emperors or someone who could affect one’s destiny. It had excited the feelings of people. In process of time the sports changed both mentally and physically, the audience has been changing as well. If thousand years ago the sports was like just training, nowadays it is training and observation of all parts of your body and mental condition. Use the wrist fitness controller it informs how much you have trained, how much you have eat and how much else you need to eat or train. Not only sportsmen does following it but the audience is also involved. Why? Because it is a mass product, sportsmen today is also an advertisement. Google glass is made for observing all those things that the keeper sees by the audience. People besides of the just training are also have an opportunity to plunge into the game and feel it, - augmented reality. So being the former amateur sportsmen, I attended taekwondo classes for 4 years and boxing courses for 3, I am really interested in such kind of inventions as augmented reality. Because now I can entirely learn the technique and manner of behavior of any popular sportsmen and do not need to contact with him or moreover to compete. 
In conclusion, The implementation of new technologies in to any spheres of our life is the undisputed event and essential need to study, work or even rest. 
