Nowadays we live in times when the world around us is developing and changing dramatically fast. And the speed of this developing is just increasing. Through the last few years there has been invented a lot of new technologies as well as a lot of new spheres and ways where these inventions can be applied.
Widespreading of the internet allowed us to learn using online distant courses, educational web-sites and special programs. Even today we use special web-site to send our work to our teacher. Some time ago we could not even imagine such things. And not there are a lot of ways how to enrich the means of learning: through the augmented reality it is possible to show people different scientific details, to let them participate in historical battles, to create different models and even carry on a test-drive of a car. 
It has been already invented special medical apparatus which allow people to get cured at home. Such things may let us to restructure the whole healthcare system to make it much more convenient for people and to avoid many possible mistakes of doctors and crowds of people in hospitals.
Tools like special electronic glasses which broadcast the data to a player’s helmet may change the skills which are required from team players and to change way of the competitions are holded, its tactics and the nature of team sprorts.
Modern researches do not result just in updating old devices, they may also give us a fresh approach, a completely new way of optimizing the system (distant education, home healthcare, sports and so on).
And there is no reason why the development may slow down or even stop. Each new technology may be used is absolutely different spheres and then each of this spheres will create new challenges for scientists which will result in further development. I believe that in 5 years we will learn about new inventions which now seem to us as absolutely fantastic and unreal. And some walks of life may become completely different systems.
Summing up, my opinion is that dramatic changes in all spheres of our lives will keep arising not only in the nearest future but in the future at all.
