All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies.
“…The civilization will not helps for humanity became better…”
Dostoevsky( «Дневники писателя»)
The XX century was like a bridge from ancient times to modern life with innovations. XXI century is the information age. There a lot of technological discoveries, so we, people have no time them.  Humanity develop with fantastic pace. More technologies, but less physical movement. More possibilities, but less time – people in metropolis complain that they always have no time! So, its hard to give one particular answer for this question. Because all history of human is develop linearly. And we can’t suggest: “How we would live if…it no technologies..or…?”. We live today and here. And we have great changes in the world under the technologies. Are they dramatically or useful for  us< for people. Let’s try to analyze different walks of life.
Sport. In video I saw the performance of man, who told or advertise about “google-glasses”. He tried to prove that augmented reality is very cool. But for me its funn, because, I think that he just showed how its possible to spend a time with not moving. Don’t go in for sport, don’t play in outside,in fresh air, just stay at home and watch videos – you have magic glasses, so you can feel everything what feel real players. Its terribly! A lot of young people in future just will choose to turn on the augmented reality, because its funny, its easy. It reminds me the Brodsky’s poems. “Не выходи из комнаты, не совершай ошибку. Зачем тебе Солнце, если ты куришь Шипку?». Prophetic! Only 50-60 years ago the novels of Bradbury were so unreal. Nowadays we see a same situation. He drow world of future. The world where technical development devour all real, all alife.
Medicine/health. In this sphere I have one opinion – the new technologies are the good changes for humanity. Step by step we won different diseases.
Are changes dramatically? It depends of walks - sports or medicine.  
