All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies.

There is no need to list all advanced technologies that we have now. Neither how did we get to this state. We all know about that changes and it’s  exponential growth (the last fact unfortunately means we in our 60th will seems to our grandchildren much “lammer” than our grandmas to us). 
So what questions left? Whether it good or bad we can’t argue with the fact of existence of this process. 
Only meaning of two words in whole statement can be listed as a debatable: dramatically and nearest.
Firstly, what do we mean by “dramatically”?
I guess people mean by that something like“you would not believe how much!”. And if that’s the meaning just think about it a little longer and you’ll see - it’s not really a lot. As a typical average human I don’t really have time to think about future technologies. And if somehow I will be able to picture something really innovative like a glass toaster or a program that will turn an average textbook to an audiobook I will google it and found out that it has been invented 5 years ago. 
So most of people can’t or don’t want to picture a brand new world and I should say that it’s not a bad thing, some of us have kids to feed.
Secondly, it’s “nearest future”. 
Earth was formed 4,5 billions of years ago (or it you believe in creation theory – was created 6 000 years ago) so what is really “nearest” means? Just 30 years ago no one would believe in such thing as an internet, and you can hardly imagine your life without it. Probably from year to year we will read a lot about new discoveries and inventions and then about how some people think that this discoveries and inventions will kill us in a couple of years (until maybe some of it eventually will kill us). 
We have to getting used to world where future is something frightening simply because it’s going to be fulfilled with things that are not familiar to us. And we have to learn how to deal with it.
