All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies
The issue of augmented reality (AR) serving for needs of sports, education, health care has been the subject of a heated debate lately. What stands for this term? Augmented reality, where digital data is overlaid on the real world, is fast-becoming an inevitable part of our future. From Hololens to Google Glass, major tech firms are betting big on its potential. With a display, a camera, a computer and optionally sensors and input such as video, graphics or GPS data, AR applications are becoming mainstream. We can increasingly augment our reality with rich data sources using media which appear as thin as air and are manipulated by a mere virtual flick of the wrist, as if we were imitating some kind of technophile Merlin with his modern magic wand. In the near future, AR means that the moment we lay our eye on something or indeed on someone, we will instantly gain access to huge amounts of information on them. It is not supposed to only make our life easy and convenient but rather to create a uniquely blended interactive experience while, for example, playing sports, learning or getting health care. However, there are plenty of people who doubt the benefit of such an ambiguous medium. Let’s speculate what makes them think so.
Gaining increasing popularity today, AR is argued to be offer a heretofore unimaginable opportunity for teachers, researchers, and developers to allow a broad audience to experience more interactive environments. 
The very core goal of the AR in education involves creating interactive, three-dimensional objects for studying purposes so that teachers could entertain as well as educate. AR offers up an immersive, three-dimensional environment for experimenting, offering up a safer, more diverse space to better understand how the universe drives itself. So teachers can use AR as an engaging educational strategy for illustrating the intricate ins and outs of physics to their students.
In medical training and simulation the learning potential of AR is significant as it allows to present 3D medical models in real-time at remote locations. This technology will allow paramedics, pre-hospital personnel, and students to practice their skills without touching a real patient and will provide them with the visual feedback they could not otherwise obtain. Such a distributed AR training tool has the potential to allow an instructor to simultaneously train local and remotely located students as well as students to actually "see" the internal anatomy and therefore better understand their actions on a human patient simulator.
In sports AR arguably will help not just players and coaches, but also fans and ordinary people to experience sports as if they are directly on the field – and maybe even help them see others in a new light, too. 
To a certain extent, all these advantages sound tempting and engaging, but we shouldn’t forget that this augmented version of reality can be dangerous as well. Beyond the promise of making our lives better, there lurks a “dark side” to AR. Undoubtedly it affects us on many personal, civil, criminal, and national security levels. We should really realize that a world with widespread use of AR headsets would be very different to today. That’s why technology policy researchers at the University of Washington are studying exactly what that world might look like. They've identified several legal and political challenges that are going to quickly become a problem, such as surveillance, privacy, safety, intellectual property, distraction and discrimination. 
The risk at the personal level is extremely high too. Many smartphones can automatically geotag pictures taken with the phone’s camera. And that capability is usually turned on by default. A large percentage of these pictures would be considered “sexting” material, or even pornographic. Obviously, those who uploaded the pictures didn’t knowingly understand the images were being geotagged by their phone. And because of the geotags, what was intended as anonymous fun is now an invitation for sexual predators.
To conclude, I think that we should stay sober and realistic not to lose the ability to weigh all pros and cons of another Frankenstein we might create. 
