Practicing Emotional Hygiene Is the First Step to Ensuring One's Psychological Well-

Being

Emotional hygiene is gaining increasing popularity today. It’s compared to dental or personal 

hygiene and refers to being mindful of our psychological health and adopting brief daily habits 

to monitor and address psychological wounds when we sustain them. Let’s speculate 

whether such comparison is correct.

When we speak about physical health, there are undisputable and objective criteria that 

indicate that our heart or liver works right. The blood test can tell us exactly our blood sugar 

or cholesterol level. Once we learn it, we can compare it the norm and take action if it's too 

high. But is there any standard for psychological hygiene? Is it sheer feeling good?

Besides, pain is very useful as it signals that something is wrong with us. If it doesn’t “work” 

we are in danger. For instance, there are cases when a person felt no pain and then died. 

Moreover, the loss of the ability to feel pain while conscious is a disease itself called 

analgesia. So pain is meant to be a protector for us. We can’t escape it anyway either 

physically or psychologically. Feeling ashamed or remorseful doesn’t make us feel 

hedonistically good but still it is rather good when a person is capable to feel this way, isn’t it? 

Sometimes our ego even needs to be hurt to prevent its accelerated growth. 

For me the term “emotional hygiene” sounds egocentric. Would you like to live in the world 

where everybody cares only about his or her emotional hygiene and nobody cares about the 

others? In other words, Guy Winch claims that when we feel good, we are more likely to do 

good. However, the reverse is also true; doing good makes us feel better. 

Furthermore, the emphasis on happiness and positive emotions sometimes feels hollow 

because of its inherent temporal nature. Henri Nouwen wrote that life is filled with such 

moments in which sadness and joy kiss. Happiness feels good, but it is temporary. And you 

and I were made for eternity.

Finally, life is not a hedonic treadmill, it is not only about avoiding pain and maximizing 

pleasure. Rather, suffering is essential to our humanity. Instead of alleviating pain with a feel-

good experience, we can grow in and through suffering. We don't merely want to be happy; 

we want our lives to matter. We want our pain to mean something.

To sum up, I think it’s better and healthier for our psyche to practice “meaningful life” rather 

than emotional hygiene. We can search for purpose among ashes. Here I am reminded of 

Dostoyevsky's words, "There is only one thing that I dread: not to be worthy of my sufferings."
