Nowadays technology penetrates all fields of our life. It already has dramatically changed the way we work, the way we communicate, the way we have fun and so on. Personally, I believe that technology will go on changing our life as there are lots of untapped possibilities for it.
Firstly, let’s think about entertainment. This industry is not as indispensable to our life as health care or education, for instance. However, it’s so profitable that the industry of entertainment is one of the most rapidly growing in many developed countries. Technology is one of the main pillars of entertainment nowadays: you’ll find 3D equipment in nearly all cinemas, there are even cinemas with 4D, 5D and so on; modern children learn how to play games on mobile phones, PCs and game consoles even before they learn to speak properly. And these all is only the beginning. To prove it, Sony has announced the release of PlayStation VR (glasses of augmented reality for PlayStation) in the nearest future. Another example: there are prototypes of special mobile apps which a viewer is supposed to use while watching films for making choices for the characters. All these and many other innovations make the entertainment sphere change: it will never be like 100, 50 or even 10 years ago.
Now I’d like to move on to healthcare. I was really inspired by the personal experience of Eric Dishman in his TED speech. It’s a miracle that technology has saved his life. I hope that the ideas he proposed will be applied worldwide. While watching Eric’s speech I thought that personal health system with remote treatment would be especially useful in Russia: here we have lots of remote villages. People who live there often have to cover large distances in order to reach hospitals. As a result, many people neglect diseases which seem to them insignificant and lose their chances to get an effective early-stage treatment. Remote doctors system will help to solve the problem and I am sure that it will save many lives.
Education is also a very perspective field from the point of technology development. We even had debates regarding the topic. In fact, technology has already changed education: for example, new gadgets like digital blackboards appeared; during our classes we have an opportunity to watch speeches of great speakers at TED; any person can nowadays take courses of the best universities of the world at Coursera for free. In the text we had for the class today there were examples of programmes created for improving studying experience (like Reliving the Revolution or PhysicsPlayground projects, for example). All these seemed impossible just 10 years ago and know it’s our nearest future. Who knows what’s next? Glasses of augmented reality for studying biology? Digital animated textbooks? Something new which seems impossible today? We’ll see it soon.
All the issues described above have already changed or will change our lives in the nearest future. Technology makes our lives easier, funnier, better. However, I am not sure whether all changes are for the better. 
The sphere I am mostly concerned about is communication. It’s rather scary looking at children at schools these days. During breaks they usually don’t play any active games, run or chat with each other but they stare at their gadgets’ screens. Sometimes they exchange with phrases like ‘Come on!’ and ‘Finish him!’. Can we call it communication? I think we cannot. What do we get as a result? We get a whole generation of people who cannot build logical phrases and have problems with socialization. 
Another example which seemed rather terrifying for me was the one by Chris Kluwe in his TED speech. He spoke about fans experiencing being on the field as their favourite players using gadgets like Google Glass. I’m afraid that this might really be too much: such technology breaks the border between real and virtual worlds. It’s not a big problem when we are speaking about imagining yourself as a football player but it might become a problem if someone tries killing in the virtual world which feels exactly like killing a real man. Thus, augmented reality might lead not only to psychological problems because of frustration between 2 worlds but also to real crimes.
To sum up, it’s undisputable for me that technology will go on changing our life in many spheres at nearly the same pace as it was changing it during the 21st century. However, it’s important not to go too far with the progress. I reckon that nowadays we’ve already come too close to the border where we should stop the technology progress in some spheres of our life.
