All walks of life - sports, education, health care and many others - are going to change dramatically in the nearest future with the coming of new technologies
Nowadays modern people are preoccupied with up-to-date technologies. We operate with various electronic devices, which have become an indispensable part of everyday life. There is no doubt that these changes will have a significant impact to our future life. There is another question: are they positive or negative? Some people claim the omnipresence of technologies in people’s life is absolutely beneficial. Personally, I do not entirely accept this point of view and in my essay I will explain why. 
First of all, I want to point out the impact of modern technologies on a human’s health. As an example, there is a certainly negative effect of a blue screen on our eyes. It is known that over the last decade the number of visually impaired children has substantially increased and undoubtedly that the major factor of this trend is the amount of time teenagers and students spent in front of TV, laptops, or personal computers. Secondly, it should be mentioned that our close interaction with devices fatally lead to that we became addicted to usage of these ‘electronic assistants’. For instance, what would an ordinary housewife do if the electricity in her house goes off because of the some fault? Would she be able to prepare a dinner without blender and microwave oven? Or, take into account a husband of this ordinary wife. Imagine that he is just driving home from the near town and suddenly because of some fault his navigation system is broken. Would he successfully continue driving after this occasion? It seems to me that both wife and husband would face some challenges and eventually there would be no dinner and no husband at home on time. Of course this situation is a bit exaggerated however the idea is clear - this inability to do things is the result of our strong dependency on the modern technologies. I do not state that people should go back to caves and cook on the fire I simply remind that we should not so blindly rely on our technologies. The last argument which I want to consider is the augmented reality which is becoming incredibly popular. It is a technology which provides elements of virtual reality on a user’s view of the real world making a composite view. On the one hand, this innovation is highly beneficial from many perspectives. For example, it is used in educational purposes, imitating a dialogue with the foreign person and thus providing an experience of communication with the native speaker. On the other hand, overusing this type of technology may lead to serious psychological deviations, such as loss of the sense of reality. These aforementioned examples accounts for the about quarter of the all substantial consequences which human beings will face in the near future. I do appreciate that some people think differently saying that this rapid growth of innovations is full of benefits. Nevertheless, I feel that the amount of disadvantages is outweighs. 
