Guy Deutscher. Does Your Language Shape How You Think? The New York Times, August 26, 2010.
The debate on whether one's mother tongue influences one's thoughts starts from the article “Science and Linguistics” by Benjamin Lee Whorf published in 1940. The article considered in this review refers to the Whorf's work and gives a present view on the linguistic relativity hypothesis to readers without professional linguistic education.
The Deutscher's article begins with stating the Whorf's idea of language controlling one's mind in terms of thoughts shaping by some language features. After mentioning a partial oblivion of the hypothesis Deutscher formulates a softened version of the hypothesis referring to the Jakobson's idea of languages differing not in the permission to convey certain meanings but in the obligatoriness to do it. The author gives some new evidences for correctness of this version of the hypothesis. 
The first evidence given concerns gender. The matter is that languages like French and German oblige speakers to specify the gender of human nouns, while e.g. English speakers can but do not have to do it. In the languages of the French type all the non-animate nouns also have gender. And recent studies showed that it makes speakers to think about the non-animate objects referred by these gender-marked nouns as being either feminine or masculine, i.e.  the associations with these nouns and the attributes used with them tend to express feminity or masculinity respectively. 
The second evidence takes into account the difference between so called egocentric and geographic languages. The former ones (e.g. English and other European languages) express directions as if a speaker would be “the center of the world”. So all the other object are e.g. on the left or on the right of it. The former ones express directions using geographic terms like north, south, west and east.
Thereafter Deutscher mentions other evidences like distinguishing basic colors in a language.
In the end of the article he states that we cannot yet measure the impact our language has on our lives but “we can do better than pretending we all think the same”. 
The article in general is a valid example of a popular work in linguistics. Its introduction provides an interest to the topic, which is maintained by comprehensible examples. On the other hand, the article has no own contribution to the field. It is just a summary of several previous studies.
In sum, Guy Deutscher' article illuminates one of the important issues in contemporary linguistics to non-linguist readers. This issue is the linguistic relativity hypothesis and it is presented providing both theoretical and factual background. 
