Deutscher, G. (2010). Does Your Language Shape How You Think? The New York Times, August 26, 2010.
Recently many scientists whose main research area is language were and remain deeply concerned about how our mother-tongue can shape our way of thinking. 
In his article, Does Your Language Shape How You Think? Guy Deutscher tries to find an answer to the question whether our language affects on our perception of the world around us or not. In the beginning, he comes out with an article written by Benjamin Lee Whorf in 1940th. Its main idea was that several mother-tongues make us different from one another just because if any concept of one language is not present in another, the two speakers of these languages can’t in any way understand each other. Despite the fact that Whorf’s idea has led to many researches on language and its effect on human’s mind, it was soon accepted as lunatic and senseless due to lack of evidences.
Nevertheless, the fact that Whorf’s ideas didn’t end up well was not a cause to stop exploring this area. More recently there were several studies that can prove the effect of our mother-tongue on our mind more distinctly. Mr Deutscher provides his thoughts with several findings in different languages.
First of all, Deutscher points out that speakers of gender-based languages (the kind of language where objects are grammatically related to female, male or neuter gender) can’t handle the habit of assigning inanimate objects with gender and seeing the world through the lenses of their grammatically more complex language. Although they don’t actually think that objects have biological sex, they just, deeply in their minds, think of inanimate objects as their gender-based mother-tongues obliges them to.
Secondly, there’s a very interesting language that Mr Deutsher brings in light of his study. Guugu Yimithirr, Australia, is famous for using geographical directions instead of egocentric coordinates. This means that when we use 'left', 'right', 'forward' and 'back' the speakers of Guugu Yimithirr use 'south', 'west', 'east' and 'north'. This example, I suppose, most exactly relates to the topic of the article, because speakers of geographic-based language think differently from us. They don’t use compass or the place of the sun os something else as we do when we need to figure out where the east is. They just feel it and know it wherever they are, because that’s how they mind works due to the fact that their mother-tongue obliges it to do so.
At last, Deutscher talks about some more features of different languages like the perception of the colour that can affect on speaker’s vision of several things or the obligation to accurately relate what happened to when exactly it happened.
To my mind, this article does not distinctly answer the question put in its title. Deutsher himself points that nowadays we can’t surely prove wether our decisions or thoughts are the products of how our mother-tongue affects our minds or not. His evidences show the differences between several languages rather than how languages shapes our mind.
Nevertheless, this article is definitely very interesting and, due to its simplicity, understandable and cognitive even for people who are not in any way related to the linguistic field. 
