Deutscher, G.(2010).Does Your Language Shape How You Think? The New York Times, 26, Aug

Does the language we speak shape our thoughts?  It is a very exciting topic nowadays. A lot of articles are written and a lot of researches are conducted on it. They contain different experiments with unexpected results. Now it seems to be proved that language influences people’s mind, but the questions are “How?” and “To what extent?”

In the article “Does Your Language Shape How You Think?” Deutscher brings the review and analysis of articles connected with the question about language and thought connection. He begins with the work of Benjamin Lee Whorf which is the reference point of the topic. Whorf confirmed that people cannot understand a concept if there is not special expression for it. However, further researches have shown that it is not absolutely true. In the Deutscher’s article there are a lot of examples which show that language influences our mind not by letting us to express one or another concept or grammatical category. Every language obliges its speakers to express some of these concepts and categories, making people pay more attention on the aspects they must express. It is how language shapes our mind. In order to support this point Deutscher brings some experiments from the articles devoted to present subject.

Firstly, the author brings the experiment which compares speakers of German and Spanish. Both this languages oblige the speakers to expresses the gender even if they talk about inanimate objects. There are a lot of objects which are feminine in one language and masculine in other. During the experiment the speakers were asked to give characteristic to these objects. It was found that the description depended on whether the object was masculine or feminine.

Secondly, the languages with different space orientation were discussed in the article. The first one is egocentric. This way of orientation is based on our bodies and describes directions using such words as right and left. The second one is geographic, which uses four cardinal directions. These types of languages makes their speakers think about space orientation in a completely different way. For example, geographic languages obliges people to know where is north and where is south at every moment of their live.

Finally, Deutscher discuss the languages which oblige their speakers to talk about the source of any reported information. They can’t help mentioning it. Therefore speakers always should think about where they know it from.

To my mind, the conclusion is the weakest part of the article. The author does not make any outcomes in it. He also does not answer the question stated in the introduction. 

Also one can say that arguments and examples in this article are described too generally. There is not detailed explanation of the methods of experiments and the reader cannot understand exactly how the experiment was conducted. However, provided this, we should mention the audience of the article. It was written for The New York Times. The readers of this magazine are mostly educated and intelligent, but most probably they are not linguists. And in this respect the article can be characterized quite positively. It is very accessible and clear. All the examples are described in the way that unskilled person can easily grasp the core of them and understand how it proves the main idea of the article.

Thus the Deytscher’s article “Does Your Language Shape How You Think?” is a good one for people who are interested in linguistics but are not professionals in this field. Moreover, the article can also be useful for linguists to begin to familiarize with its subject. The Deutscher’s article is a good review of what has already been done on its topic. It gives a flavour about how the topic developed, what assumptions were made, which of them were proved and which were crashed.
