Topic
Write a critical review of Deutscher's article "Does your language shape how you think"

Deutscher, G. (2010). Does your language shape how you think. The New York Times, 26 Aug.

	The first language is an essential part of everyone's life. It helps people to think, to speak, to express their thoughts etc. Moreover, it can help to learn foreign languages: it can become the base for learning similar one. Besides, the first language is a big part of a culture. That's why, people treat with a great respect to it. 
	In the article “Does your language shape how to think” Deutscher explores different points of view on this issue. He tries to find advantages  and disadvantages of the Benjamin Lee Whorf's theory and find th answer with the data of different languages and cultures. 
	In order to support this contention, Deutscher calls in question the assumption that “if a language has no word for a certain concept, then its speakers would not be able to understand this concept". The author claims that it's not a true and suggests to observe different languages to understand how a mother-tongue   influences on bearer. Deutscher takes a basis tha fact which was pointed out by Roman Jakobson: languages differ in what they must convey and not in what they may convey. Deutscher briefly reviews some factors in different languages: 1) genders; 2) a color system and a spectrum of visible lights; 3) space and orientation. For instance, a remote Australian aboriginal tongue, Guugu Yimithirr, doesn't make any use of egocentric coordinates at all. 
	In conclusion the author asserts that “The habits of mind that our culture has
instilled in us from infancy shape our orientation to the world and our emotional responses to the
objects we encounter, and their consequences probably go far beyond what has been
experimentally demonstrated so far; they may also have a marked impact on our beliefs, values
and ideologies”. 
	Leaving aside the positive developments which Deutscher's study added to our knowledge of a profound effect of a mother-tongue on bearer, there are several criticisms which can be levelled at this work. First of all, the author doesn't take into consideration the fact that not only the language influences on a bearer, there are a lot of different factors which can do it: the culture, the family, the surroundings etc. Secondly, the author says that people in different countries use different words, constructions. However, it depends not only on the language, but on the habits of people and on their manner of speaking, “etiquette”. 
	Despite the above criticisms, this article is very interesting and well-structured. There are examples from languages all over the world and they really show that mother-tongue can shape how people think. 
