In his article “Does Your Language Shape How You Think” Guy Deutscher reviews some evidence for the influence of one’s mother tongue on their habits of thinking. The reader is invited to explore the striking difference in how speakers of the world’s languages can perceive the world.

At the beginning, the author discusses the development of the topic during the last 70 years. Benjamin Whorf was the first to introduce the idea that languages can prevent people from understanding certain concepts. The idea immediately gained success, but after some time its popularity plummeted, whereas now more and more scientists revisit the topic. Today the dominating idea in the field is that in the process of speaking some language we acquire certain habits of thought that shape our experience in significant and often surprising ways. The author also refers to Jacobson’s famous maxim: “Languages differ essentially in what they must convey and not in what they may convey”. Illustrative material from French, English and Chinese helps the author to rephrase the main question: paying attention to what is grammatically demanded in a language and ignoring other things becomes a way of thinking and affects our experience of the world.

To support this idea, Deutscher provides a substantial amount of evidence which is divided into three sections. In the first section, the author considers grammatical gender and describes experiments to show that speakers of gendered languages, unlike English speakers, perceive objects through gender connotations. In the second section, Deutscher continues with discussion of geographical languages as opposed to egocentric languages. The most striking argument here is that people can entail different ideas from the same observation and these entailments can be defined by the language. To give a sketchy example, let us imagine two tables standing near two opposite walls in some empty room. A speaker of an egocentric language, for instance, any Indo-European, approaches the first table and observes a row of objects A, B and C on it, so that A is to the left of C. After that the man turns around and approaches the other table, sees a similar object A to the left and a C to the right and claims that the rows are identical. Whereas a speaker of a geographical language would say that the rows are different, because on the first table A is to the south of C, but on the second A lies to the north of it. Finally, in the last section, author mentions other ways language might influence our experience of the world, which are the words for colors and expressing evidentiality. Deutcher writes that the way language distinguishes colors may influence our perception of pictures and the way language makes people specify sources of information renders them more honest.

All in all, Deutscher’s article does not make any original contribution to the topic, but it presents a good popular overview of the state of art. Deutscher is particularly successful in the choice of arguments and the conclusions are very plausible. However, his description of the geographical languages is one-sided. The author explains that geographical languages are those in which space is described in terms of cardinal directions. It is more concise to say that geographical languages simply do not use the speaker’s own body as a reference point. For example, in some languages of Australia, one must describe space in terms of approaching or moving away from the ocean. To the undoubted merits of the article we should add the author’s friendly writing style and engaging interaction with the reader.

“Does Your Language Shape How You Think” discusses several illuminating experiments which may fascinate audience not familiar with linguistics. For these readers Deutscher’s article can uncover some surprising facts and definitely serve as a welcoming door to the world of languages.
