Deutscher, G. (2010). Does your language shape how you think? The New York Times, 26 Aug.
The idea about power of language over the mind firstly appeared in the middle of the twentieth century and caused an explosion of debates. Then scientists called relation between language and thought in question and let fall this conception into oblivion. However, today this topic is up-to-date and actual among psycholinguists again.
Guy Deutscher, an honorary research fellow at the School of Languages, Linguistics and Cultures at the University of Manchester, in his article Does your language shape how you think explores the influence of the mother tongue on our thoughts. He assumes that this influence varies across the different languages, yet it is not because of what one language allows its speakers to think but because of what it usually obliges them to consider.  In other words, if some concept is missing in a language, it does not mean that speakers of this language are unable to understand this concept, it means that they do not have to consider it. For example, English speakers in contrast to German or French ones do not mention the sex of their neighbors, friends or teachers. And it is not because they cannot understand the difference between males or females, they simply are not obliged by grammar to do this. Deutscher concludes that such habits of speech settle into habits of mind and this affects our experiences, associations, memories and orientation in the world. 
In order to support this statement, the author provides a wide range of evidences. First of all, he mentions experiments that have shown that grammatical genders shape the associations of speakers toward inanimate objects around them. In particular, when Spanish and German speakers were asked to characterize objects that had reversed genders in these languages, Spaniards described words that are masculine in Spanish generally with manly features, while Germans described the same words that are feminine in German with elegant features. Secondly, Deutscher indicates that speakers of different languages perceive space around them in discriminate ways.  For instance, English speakers use egocentric coordinates and terms like ‘in front of’, ‘behind’, ‘on the left’, ‘on the right’. At the same time speakers of a Australian aboriginal tongue, Guugu Yimithirr, orient themselves with the help of geographic coordinates and say ‘north’, ‘south’, ‘west’ and ‘east’. They not only always know where the cardinal directions are but also memorize events according to these directions. Such system is not natural or intelligible for English speakers. Also, the author points at two more sophisticated arguments: divergent perception of colours and “evidentiality” among speakers of different languages. In the end, Deutscher concludes that people do need to understand that we do not think the same and now we have to measure the consequences of our diversity for our life, cross-cultural or political misunderstandings.
Due to the animated language of this article it seems to be elegant and impressive. Deutscher uses many ‘emotional’ expressions and words (“alluring”, “to augur”, “crash-landed on hard facts”, “I do have to tell”), metaphors (“This maxim offers us the key to unlocking the real force of the mother tongue”), insightful comparisons (“She” stays feminine all the way from the lungs up to the glottis and is neutered only when she reaches the tip of the tongue”) and in some places humour (“a German woman rarely mistakes her husband for a hat”). This makes the article not only scientific but also popular with the majority of people.

An array of detailed examples is another positive aspect of Deutscher’s article. The author provides every of his statement with an evidence and example which makes his article comprehensive and convincing. 

Leaving aside the general good impression of Deutscher’s work and its contribution to our knowledge, there are several drawbacks in it. In my opinion, Deutscher did not pay enough attention to his last two arguments about colours and epistemology. Some points stay obscure because he did not work on them as detailed as on previous ones. 

Also, the author asks engaging questions – whether habits of mind shape tastes, fashions and habits in various societies; whether speakers of egocentric and geographic languages have different attitude to life and their place in the world; whether speakers of languages like Matses in Peru have another sense of truth and causation. And finally the author informs that at present stage of our knowledge scientists cannot answer these questions. I think that he should not have roused such an interest if he had not intended to answer these issues. It was a little disappointing and misleading.

Nonetheless, I think that the above criticisms do not spoil the quality and fascination of the article at all. Only such animated, intelligible and sometimes humorous work is able to engage and persuade people to read the whole book relating to this theme.
