Deutscher, G. Does Your Language Shape How You Think? Horacio Slinas for The New York Times, August 26, 2010.
It is common knowledge that our language is full of secrets and mysteries. Lots of them are still not explainable. However, the researches take place and the experiments are provided, and people have got many significant results from their work. One of the spheres of scientist’s interest is the way how language influence people’s mind, and Gay Deutscher in his article presents the information on this topic.
In the beginning of his work the author shows how the views on this linguistic problem have changed. The first hypothesis that languages impose people different pictures of reality was created by Lee Whorf, and at first it seemed to be a fantastic claim. However, later researches showed that this fact really takes place in our world. In the article Deutscher introduces some interesting examples when language obliges its speakers to think about certain things and thus shape their mind. Especially, he shows the difference between senses of gender in German and Russian, Italian and English. And then comes the realization, that speaking different languages makes people think in various ways. 
The author shows, that sometimes these can cardinally differ from each other. As an example he tells about Guugu Yimithirr, the language with the system of fixed geographic directions. This system differs from the one we’ve got used to, which uses egocentric coordinates. Explaining the way the speakers of Guugu Yimithirr live, communicate, think and behave themselves Deutscher brings us to believe that our mother tongue forms our habits since we are born, and they affect our minds during the whole life. In my opinion, these examples are really outstanding and help to understand and to feel the differences between speakers of different languages.
To tell the truth, I do not have any critic attitude to this article. The one moment which I did not like a little is that Deutscher talks for a long time about one particular example, and others are not full enough (a one about the colors, for instance). However, I do not consider this as a great disadvantage of the text.
I think the author has succeeded in other aspects of the work. As long as the audience for whom the article was written consists of simple people, there are not many scientific vocabulary and linguistic terms in the text. Deutscher’s goal was to rouse public’s interest in this topic, because everyone speaks a language and it affects everybody. The author showes, how significantly our language works and influence our minds in ways, which we do not pay attention to in our everyday life. And for me, a young linguist, this article seems to be really engaging.
