Deutscher, G., (2010). Does Your Language Shape How You Think? The New York Times, August 26, 2010.

Our language is the most important tool not only for communication, but also for the organization of thinking. The idea that languages fundamentally affect the way we think is often brought up. Guy Deutscher, the author of the article “Does the language shape how you think?” reviews the history of this problem and offers a modern interpretation of the question. 

Firstly, the author mentions Whorf’s theory, which states that languages impose on their speakers certain restrictions on the ability to comprehend reality. Guy Deutscher postulates that this theory is nowadays considered to be inconsistent because languages cannot prevent us from thinking about concepts even if these concepts do not exist in grammatical or lexical patterns of a language. It is believed now that languages differ in what they oblige their speakers to think about and not in what they can express by grammatical means.

In order to support this contention, Deutscher presents an example of gender marking in European languages. In some languages, such as German and French, it is necessary to express the gender of people and even inanimate objects a person is talking about, while English speakers are not obliged to think about the gender of their referents. However, this difference doesn’t mean that speakers of English are unable to understand the concept of gender. What it actually means is that the speakers do not have to think about gender any time they generate a sentence.

To further develop the idea, the author states that “when your language routinely obliges you to specify certain types of information, it forces you to be attentive to certain details in the world…”. He illustrates the hypothesis with the example of Guugu Yimithirr, an Australian language, which operates with geocentric coordinates instead of familiar to us egocentric coordinates. Speakers of this language rely on cardinal directions to denote a place of an object in space, and it is natural for them to say “look out for that big ant just north of your foot”. This system makes the speakers remember the reality with connection to the area and cardinal directions as a part of the picture, while speakers of egocentric languages conceptualize the world relying on their own position in space. 

One of the major advantages of this article is its engaging nature. This article is perfectly suitable for its audience – intelligent people with no linguistic experience. Deutscher’s article introduces the notion of typologically rare language systems and forces its readers to think about peculiarities in familiar European languages. Another advantage of the article is its clear language and bright linguistic examples. Therefore, the article successfully achieves its goal – broadens the readers’ horizons and draws attention to the problem of interaction of language and thought.

Nevertheless, some of the examples given by the author are rather controversial. If we compare the experiment with the blindfolded speaker of Guugu Yimithirr, who nevertheless was able to point at the geographic directions without hesitation, with the story of a boy with talent for dancing, who was completely lost when he moved to a different village, it might raise questions about this argument’s credibility. If a speaker of a language with geocentric system is able to know the cardinal directions even if (s)he is artificially disoriented or meets poor visibility conditions, how could the boy get confused by moving to the nearby village?

In addition, final examples in the article about colors and evidentiality lack completeness. The author does not fully develop them, despite the fact that people’s attention is often concentrated on the last examples due to human psychology. This is a major drawback because readers’ impression of the article can be spoilt by such weak examples, especially after the large and bright part of the article dedicated to gender and coordinate systems.

In my opinion, the article can be improved by introducing more sophisticated data which was not previously analyzed in similar works and by consulting with linguists competent in a particular area, for example, with those specializing in the languages of Austronesia.  It would make the data presented in the article look more verified and meaningful.

Despite the disadvantages listed above, the article of Guy Deutscher is, without doubt, very entertaining. Moreover, it makes people who are inexperienced in linguistics more knowledgeable about different languages.
