Deutscher, G. (2010). Does Your Language Shape How You Think? New York Times, August.

Relation between language and thought is a topic that, after a period of oblivion, has recently attracted considerable research interest among psycholinguists. In the article Does Your Language Shape How You Think? Deuscher, an Honorary Research Fellow at the University of Manchester, demonstrates to a broad readership that our mother tongue does influence our manner of thinking in different ways that are yet to be explored. 
	In the first section of this article, the author discusses the theory of Benjamin Lee Whorf, who first introduced the idea about language's power over the mind in 1940. Deutscher considers the shortcomings of this theory, the key one being that Whorf's claims were unsupported and, at the same time, inconsistent with common sense: as Deutscher points out, it is obvious for anyone who has ever learned any foreign language that the lack of an expression for some concept in the mother tongue does not forbid its speaker to comprehend this concept. However, the author postulates that the general idea should not be totally rejected, but considered from a different perspective: "If different languages influence our minds in different ways, this is not because of what our language allows us to think but rather because of what it habitually obliges us to think about. ".
	In the following paragraphs, Deutscher illustrates this argument with linguistic evidence. He demonstrates that the grammatical categories present in language determine the aspects of a situation that their speakers must take into account while speaking: for example, category of gender obliges to state whether a person mentioned in speech is a man or a woman. Differences between lexical systems also influence our perception of reality: thus, psycholinguistic experiments have shown that color-naming strategy of our language obliges us to exaggerate the distance between shades of some colors and to diminish the distance between others.
	As a conclusion, the author postulates that, even though mother tongue does not actually restrict our mentality, it does instill on us certain 'habits of mind', which should be explored with the help of new methods of linguistic investigaion.
	Taking into account the wide audience of the article, it is hard not to acknowledge that it is extremely engaging and comprehensice. The experimental evidence is convincing and impressive, especially for readers who have never dealt with similar research and have never come to think about the differences between languages the way they are presented in tha article. At the same time, however, some of the examples are confusing: for instance, when Deutscher talks about space cognition, the example with the boy who couldn't understand geographic coordinates when he moved to another village seems to be inconsistent with the claim about the "superhuman sense of orientation" of speakers of geographic languages. Also, it is obvious that the author is trying to avoid Whorf's mistakes of being overly categorical: most of his claims are made in a careful manner with stipulations, and this way they take more time to comprehend. The main argument could be more explicit. 
	Despite these minor shortcomings, the article manages to convey an interesting idea in an elegant way and is significant in regards of popularization of linguistic knowledge.
