Deutscher, G. (2010) Does Your Language Shape How You Think? The New York Times, Aug 26

The idea that the language could shape the way that people think is one of the most controversial, debatable, complicated and attractive problems in linguistics. It was explored by Wilhelm von Humboldt, Ludwig Wittgenstein, Leo Weisgerber and many others. But that hypothesis is generally associated with Mr. Benjamin Lee Whorf, who claimed that mother language determines one’s thought and manner of cognition. He called his postulate the principle of linguistic relativity but in nowadays it is mostly called a Sapir–Whorf hypothesis. Guy Deutscher in his article “Does Your Language Shape How You Think?” presents discusses different attempts to investigate a Whorf’s assumption.

In the article the author first of all briefly contests some Whorf’s claims (such as one’s incapacity to understand the concepts if there is no specific word for that concept in her mother language) and formulates a so called weak version of the Sapir–Whorf hypothesis: language influence thought and certain kinds of non-linguistic behavior. Deutscher quotes Roman Jakobson: “languages differ essentially in what they must convey and not in what they may convey”. To illustrate that statement the author compares languages with gender that oblige speakers to think about sex of humans they talk about. Deutscher describes several experiments aimed to examine if speakers with different gender systems perceive the world. The experiment shows that people tend to describe inanimate things to have “female” traits (elegant, slender) if they are grammatically feminine, and to have “male” traits (strong) if they are grammatically masculine. But the author does not tell if the shape of the fork made in Spain differs from that made in France, if in French ‘fork’ is feminine and in Spanish it is masculine.

Deutscher also tells about geographic languages. Their speakers use cardinal directions to describe the space around them. It makes them to perceive the world in another way but it doesn’t mean they geographic language speakers are less egocentric then English language speakers, for example. In addition the author talks about colors. He claims that in many languages green and blue but are considered shades of the same color and that could mean that mother tongue affect on people’s perception of painting, for example. But the problem of perception of the colors in too complex to describe it in one paragraph. 

The article is appropriate for the inexperienced audience, taking an interest in linguistics. But aiming to make the article clear as much as possible, the author advisedly simplified certain moments. 

First of All, the article would have been less one-sided if the author had adduced an another approach to the Sapir–Whorf hypothesis, prevalent between generative grammar adherents: language and thought are reciprocally independent, but they both are influenced by living conditions, that’s why we can observe the correlation between them. 

Another crucial point in understanding the problem of the linguistic relativism, that the author didn’t mention, is the fact that one can’t prove or contest it in principle because it’s impossible to determine what the cognition or the thought is. 

However, Guy Deutscher’s article could rouse public interest to linguistics and thus serve as a popularize science. 
