Deutscher, G. (2010)

Does Your Language Shape How You Think? The New York Times, August 26, 2010.

Relation between language and thought is a topic that, after a period of oblivion, has recently attracted considerable research interest. In his article Does Your Language Shape How You Think? aimed at the wide readership Guy Deutscher investigates a question about the influence of language on our thoughts and provides linguistic evidence to prove his statements. 

The debate on whether language influences one’s thoughts goes back to 1940, when B.L. Whorf wrote his short article on language’s power over mind that stirred a whole generation up. In his article G. Deutscher first takes a claim made by Whorf who stated that our language constrains people’s thoughts and we are not able to understand a concept of the thing if we don’t have a name for it in our language. Then he marks out serious mistakes Whorf made and emphasizes his suppositions which turned out to have no evidence to be supported. The author mentions that Whorf’s assumptions are wrong and according to new research we acquire certain habits of thought that shape our experience, when we learn our mother tongue. He continues with the quote of the renowned linguist Roman Jakobson: “Languages differ essentially in what they must convey and not in what they may convey” and claims that if different languages influence our thoughts in different ways, it is because of what our language obliges, but not allows, us to think about.

In order to support his statement, Deutscher presents examples of parts of conversation from speakers of different languages in order to illustrate the grammar difference between the behaviour of speakers of English and French or German. He states that English speakers do not have to consider the sex of people in the conversation, whereas French and German speakers are obliged to do so. On the other hand, English obliges speakers to mention the timing of the event they are talking about, in contrast to Chinese, for instance. Having considered these examples Deutscher makes a small conclusion that some languages force people to be attentive to certain details and aspects of experience. The author also adds that grammatical genders can shape feelings and associations of speakers towards objects around them. He provides examples and shows the differences in associations between speakers of Spanish and German. Then Deutscher states a question, whether emotional maps imposed by gender shape our habits and preferences. 

The next problem that Deutscher discusses is the description of the world around us. He describes two systems of coordinates: egocentric and geocentric, and claims that egocentric coordinates dominate our speech as this system is easier and more natural. The writer then presents examples from Guugu Yimithirr, Australian aboriginal tongue, whose speakers rely only on cardinal directions and specifies that if the language makes us speak about space in different ways, it does not mean we have to think about it differently. Moreover Deutscher presents the differences of perception of colors in English and the usage of verbal forms that depends on the situation. 

Having analyzed and compared the examples from different languages Deutscher makes the conclusion that our mother-tongue does not constrain our capacity to reason. It just trains our brain to think a certain way. There are habits of mind and culture that can influence our beliefs and ideologies. The author claims that people should not pretend they all think in the same way and overestimate the importance of abstract reasoning in life. 

The general idea of the article makes sense: our native language affects our intuitional and logical outlook however it does not constrain our thoughts. Deutscher uses formal language throughout his article and provides many examples to substantiate his argument. Furthermore he uses references that make his argument stronger and sometimes cites humorous instances and stories that help to comprehend the main idea of the article. In the end he states a metaphor that language is claimed to be “a prison house”. Thus the writer stresses the wrongly claimed idea that our mind is under constant constraint of our mother-tongue, mentioning further the power of culture in how it shapes the way we perceive the world around us. 

Nevertheless, some linguistic data presented in the article was a bit obscure and gave raise to doubts. For instance, the experiment with the blindfolded man who pointed at the geographic directions without hesitation contradicts the story of a boy, who showed talent for dancing and was once taken from his native village to another place. The boy could not understand his teacher’s instructions, as he was completely disoriented, however the man who was spun around several times managed to orientate himself without any problem.  Furthermore, the author does not seem to completely uncover the essence of the question, there remains the feeling that the article is incomplete. 

Despite the above criticisms, Deutscher’s article is very cognitive, engaging and well understood for people of all ages who do not necessarily have linguistic education. 
