“Does Your Language Shape How You Think?” by Guy Deutscher

During last century a connection between our mother-tongue language and our way of thinking has been discussed a lot. The first great breakthrough in this field was in 1940. In his article Benjamin Lee Whorf presented totally new point of view, claiming that speakers’ picture of reality depends on concepts existed in language. About twenty years later Roman Jakobson found out difference between languages in types of obligatory expression of some grammar or semantic information (like gender or timing).

Guy Deutscher, an Israeli linguist, explores this topic in detail permanently applying for a variety of researches and experiment. It allows him to describe full picture of our present overview of this field. In his article “Does Your Language Shape How You Think?” the author considers two important aspects of that discussion and makes brief overview of other researches and questions.

First, the author presents background of his research, previous works and common examples, and then formulates a present point of view. Furthermore, he discusses one of the major semantic areas, expression of gender in various languages. Deutscher compares German and English with other European languages, such as Spanish, French and Russian. The main idea consists in a statement that a grammatical gender can change speaker impressions of objects around him. For instance, the speaker can endow inanimate objects with human qualities in light of their gender. Thus Spanish speakers think about clocks or bridges as more “manlike” objects because of their strength whereas German speakers perceive them as more slender or elegant. In opposition to them the author notices English pronoun “its”, which relates to both genders. However, the question about the influence of gender division remains open.

In the following paragraphs Deutscher considers the description of space and orientation. Due to his article, there are two different systems of coordination, egocentric and geographic. The first system consists of a left-right axis and a front-back axis orthogonal to it, all of which depend on the speaker’s own body. The second system uses fixed geographic coordinates which do not change while the speaker turns on. We use them according to size of describing space: the egocentric system is used for a small-size space, for instance. 

Despite this system dominates in many languages there are some languages as Australian aboriginal tongue, Guugu Yimithirr, which uses geographic coordinates. The author gives a lot of examples from Guugu Yimithirr to show that its speakers use it as natural as we use egocentric coordinates in our mother-tongues. However, such languages can use that coordinate system only in well-known area. In support to that statement the author describes one experiment with Guugu Yimithirr’s speaker, a little boy, who was really disappointed when he was asked to take “three steps east” in unfamiliar place. So we can understand that speakers of such “geographic-orientated” languages “remember” their own reality, which contains all that geographic coordinates.

In last paragraphs Guy Deutscher mentions other ways, in which language can shape our mind. He discusses names for colors in varied languages, the obligatory mentioning of different points of situation, as timing, speed, type of movement, etc. Lastly, in conclusion the author tells that there are really many questions for future researchers in this field. We cannot explain how the distinction in mother-tongues can relate to political or cultural misunderstanding, but we really should consider this difference and try to understand other people though.

Leaving aside presenting and discussing Deutscher’s article, there are several causes for criticize this work. Firstly, through whole article there is no neat statement of author’s point of view. All his hypothesizes are nebulous, arguments for and against are mixed up, what makes this work a little bit tangled. Secondly, lots of rhetorical questions distract audience attention and overcrowded paragraphs.

Nevertheless, these questions involve reader into discussion and make reading more interactive. Moreover, what is absolutely useful and practical, the author illustrates every fact he states what makes comprehension of text easier. To sum up, it is enough to read this work to be up on this discussion.
