Deutscher, G. (2010). Does your language shape how you think?. The New York Times, 29.

Does language determine people's ability to understand various concepts? In the article «Does your language shape how you think?» Guy Deutscher investigates the connection between language and people's way of thinking. 

The idea that these two matters are connected was first stated in 1940 in Benjamin Lee Whorf's article «Science and Linguistics». This article has created a basis for all the latter research. Whorf claimed, that every language prevents its speakers from understanding some concepts. However, Deutscher criticizes the article for being too categorical and lacking proof for the allegiances Whorf made. Because of these drawbacks Whorf's theory was abandoned for almost 70 years and revisited only recently.

In the modern research major changes were applied to the theory. In his article Deutscher suggests analyzing language and thoughts in accordance with these changes. For example, instead of searching for restrictions that a mother tongue applies to its speakers he suggests, referring to Jacobson's maxim, studying the patterns that language obliges its speakers to express. 

At first he speaks about how “gendered languages” affect their speakers' sense of different objects. It is experimentally proven that the speakers of these languages assign female and male voices to inanimate objects with female and male grammatical gender, respectively. Moreover, people tend to associate inanimate objects with other qualities determined by gender, such as strength or finesse.

Another argument provided in the article is the existence of languages with different coordinate systems: egocentric and geographical. According to Deutscher, the speakers of the languages with geographical coordinates develop extremely accurate sense of orientation and can point at North, South, West and East even in an unknown area. Moreover, these people are not born with this skill, they develop it by the age of 7-8. The most striking thing about this is that their memory also uses absolute directions: they can retell a story using the same directions as in real life. Furthermore, they can do it again after several years and the directions will remain the same.

In the end, Deutscher provides some data on evidentiality and colors. To conclude he says, that our language is not “a “prison house” that constrained our capacity to reason” but it greatly affects our abstract reasoning.

Deutscher's article seems pretty interesting. Firstly, it is unusual for a popular magazine article to provide valid scientific argumentation to support the author's opinion. Secondly, despite all the scientific facts being analyzed, the article remains compelling and entertains its reader. It is very well structured, the arguments are clear and the language does not seem too complex. Deutscher manages to express very complicated data in a way an untrained reader can understand it.

Nevertheless, the arguments are not perfect. For example, it is not clear whether the speakers of geographical languages can understand directions out of the territory they live in. The story about the dancer boy proves that they can not. However, this story contradicts other experiments where people did it even while blindfolded. 

The last two arguments, evidentiality and color perception, are not developed enough and seem lacking details. Probably, it would be better to shorten the part about Guugu Yimithirr and enhance  these two parts. It is possible that this way the article would seem more balanced. 

As for the conclusion of the article, it should probably be more striking. NY Times is not a scientific journal, therefore the author should probably pay more attention to the end of the article in order to impress his readers. However, he did not do it and the last page seems like he did last-minute corrections and cut a few passages.

In spite of some weaknesses in the organization of the article, Guy Deutscher managed to deliver a very complicated piece of information in such a way that it can be easily understood by a very broad audience of the New York Times. 
