Review
Deutscher, G. Does Your Language Shape How You Think? The New York Times, August 26, 2010.

For a long time scientists have had a concern in the question on how human’s mother-tongue affects people’s cognition and world view. Benjamin Lee Whorf claimed that the language we speak totally shapes the way of our world perception. Since there was no testimony given the Whorf’s theory was informally prohibited from evolving.

Although after the time the long-standing question appeared again, it now arises as to whether mother-tongue actually influences human’s minds or not. Thus, in the article Does Your Language Shape How You Think?, Guy Deutscher investigates this issue providing his conclusions with particular linguistic facts and studies. Deutscher compares several languages including English, French and Spanish for the purpose of gender notion. He also explores the difference in geographical and egocentric tongues. Using the data Deutscher arrives at a conclusion that mother-language does not prevent us from having a particular concept but obliges us to mention different facts.

To advocate his point of view Guy Deutscher cites the example of geographical language, Guugu Yimithirr, which has no words as ‘forward’ or ‘left’. But, referring to Deutscher, there are still these concepts in Guugu Yimithirr and they are just being expressed in a different manner. Moreover, examining gender and non-gender languages the author demonstrates that language rather forces us to communicate certain information than limit people’s conception.

Despite the fact that it is hard to disregard Deutscher’s achievements there are a few criticisms which might be mentioned talking about this article. Firstly, all the presented facts still do not prove the statement that all people have the same concepts and notions. Deutscher just expresses his opinion that missing words are not valuable enough to deprive speaker of conceptions.

Secondly,  coming closer to the conclusion Deutscher introduce amendments into his assertion saying that we cannot be sure so far if his point of view is correct.

However, there are some drawbacks in Guy Deutscher’s work it presents a great interest both for linguists and for not well-informed readers since it touches the extremely important question. Therefore, this article can easily play a role of push for further investigations. 
