Deutscher, G.(2010)."Does Your Language Shape How You Think?". New York Times, August 26


In 2010, Guy Deutscher's article Does Your Language Shape How You Think? was published in the world famous "The New York Times" magazine. Deutscher explores consequences between habits of mind and language. His statement on the topic is that nowadays it is unknown how to measure directly this correlation, however, it is clear, we don't think all the same way.  In order to support this, he analyzed some experiments of how obligation of gender influence on the way of thinking in some languages and unnatural coordination system of Guugu Yimithirr language. 

Deutscher begins his article with disproof of theory of Benjamin Lee Whorf, who claimed that Native Americans due to language difference would simply not be able to understand some concepts, which are basic for us (Science and Linguistics, MIT Technology Review, 1940). Deutscher's position is based on the fact that if Whorf were right we would not be able to learn something new. 

After that, author considers the fact that obligation of some categories shapes habits of your mind. This theory is based on Roman Jacobson's maxim: “Languages differ essentially in what they must convey and not in what they may convey.” Moreover, Deutscher provides results of several linguistic experiments. For example, French and Spanish speakers were asked to assign male of female voices to various objects in a cartoon. As the result, people wanted objects which are masculine in their language to speak in a man voice and objects which are feminine people wanted to speak in a female way. 


Another observation that supports Deutscher's main theory it is Guugu Yimithirr coordination system. The system is based on geographical coordinates, i.e. Guugu Yimithirr speakers instead of "to the left" say "to the west". Moreover, imagine that speaker of Guugu Yimithirr come into a room, which is look like his but it is situated on the other side of the corridor. For him, the bed which was in the north in his room now is in the south; the bathroom that in his room was in the east is now in the west and e.t.c. He would say that these rooms differ. At the same time, if he were European, the rooms would be the same.  So, it is rather hard to say how Guugu Yimithirr speakers' way of thinking, but there is one thing we can state undoubtedly, it is not the way we think. 


Finally, Deutscher concludes that however, connection between language and way of thinking is not well-studied; we can state that we think different. 


As for me, Guy Deutscher found an excellent way to draw attention of the variety of people to this topic. His proofs are logical and suitable for non-linguists. 


References


1. Benjamin L.W. (1940) Science and Linguistics, MIT Technology Review http://lmc.gatech.edu/~herrington/classes/6320f01/whorf.html
