Published in New York Times in 2010, Guy Deutsher’s article “Does your language shape how you think?” was an overview of the studies on this issue. Starting with Benjamin Lee Whorf's hypothesis about language’s influence on the mind, the author consistently shows us all the stages of this problem’s life. Like on the excursion, we move from Whorf to Jacobson, who clarified Whorf’s wording, claiming that “languages differ essentially in what they must convey and not in what they may convey”. According to Deutscher, this proves the main Whorf’s mistake that language can forbid its speaker to think about something or to understand something.  Deutscher argues that any language only obliges you to express something and, as a result, it becomes the habit of mind. And as different languages require the expression of different things, it seems to us that people are unable to understand each other in some situations.  The main point of this article is that it’s wrong: we can understand those concepts that our language doesn’t convey, but at the same time, our language shapes our mind. This contradiction the author tries to explain and find the evidences to each part of it. 
To prove that, Guy Deutscher mentions the experiments in 1990s, which showed that “grammatical genders can shape the feelings and associations of speakers toward objects around them”.  There are many objects like forks, bridges etc., which belong to different genders in Spanish and German. And the speaker’s attitude to them differs in these languages. There is one more striking point that the author uses for evidence, namely, two systems of coordinates: egocentric and geographical. People distinct in how they remember the reality and it connects with the system of coordinates their language uses. Deutcher shows the experiments with two opposite neighbors that proves it.
However, this article only summarizes all the investigations that were done before Deutscher. There are no his own ones. He just collected in one place some discoveries and suppositions that have already been done on this issue. He even doesn’t say is it everything or not and how old is it. The only closest data was 1990s. And it’s too old for scientific research. It’s not modern. Nevertheless he couldn’t propose something new neither from himself nor from other contemporary scientists. He just outlined all a bunch of questions left over from the time of those experiments which he described (i.e. those questions that have been asked and then left unanswered). Deutscher explains that this ambiguity still exist because of insufficient level of medical knowledge and lack of equipment, allowing to carry out experiments. But he also didn’t suggest any algorithms of new possible experiments. That’s why there is no clear conclusion in the article.
Although Deutscher doesn’t give us any explicit outputs, he mentions one that answers the question in the name of his article. He proves his statement with strong examples which are not unintelligible. So this article is well constructed and understandable for non-sophisticated reader. Anyhow, if somebody wants to know more specified information or the latest researchers’ discoveries, he should look for something else. This article can be only a good introduction to the problem.
