The article "How does your language shape how you think" presents Guy Deutscher's thoughts about the connection between the functionality of languages and our consciousness. 
The author starts with introducing Benjamin Lee Whorf's theory. In this theory Whorf claims that since speakers of some languages have a totally different picture of reality, they will not be able to understand some basic concepts of other languages' speakers. 
Guy Deutscher shows the inadequacy of this theory to the reader and tries to give evidence that a person's mother tongue really shapes his/her experience of the world around, but does not confine his or her thoughts. He also pays our attention to an assertion of Roman Jakobson that is "Languages differ essentially in what they must convey and not in what they may convey". 
Your language forces you to be attentive to certain details in the world, while speakers of other languages may not be required to think about these details all the time. As the author of the article says "..since such habits of speech are cultivated from the earliest age, it is only natural that they can settle into habits of mind that go beyond language itself, affecting your experiences, perceptions, associations, feelings, memories and orientation in the world." In support of this idea Mr.Deutscher represents various facts about languages that are different in their ways of expression gender, distance, time, colour, etc.  He lets us see that any kinds of speakers do not fail to understand each other and while reading about expressions of geographical directions a reader can even admit that sometimes another language's constitution is more suitable for a certain situation. 
The author gives a variety of curious linguistic material in order to find out whether the language really shapes our mind. Generally, it turns out that our mother tongue is an awesome inevitable tool in constructing our responses to the environment. 
But despite Deutscher's convincing examples and his welcome writing, some questions  still need to be answered. Proof that the language just SHOWS the way of thinking, but not does shape it, is still a nonresponsed item. Moreover a language can be considered not as a tool of constructing but of conveying our thoughts as it is the reflection of the thoughts and not the reverse. 
Undoubtedly, Guy Deutscher talks good sense about the part that the mother tongue plays in how we perceive the world. In a playful and provocative way he draws our attention to this question and he is likely to find followers in the face of average people as well as of those who take interest in this issue.
