Deutscher, G. (2010). "Does Your Language Shape How You Think?". New York Times, August 26.

The language's influence on our way of thinking and perceiving the world around us has been a controversial topic for a long time. Since 1940, when the popular article by B. L. Whorf came out and made the hype, there have been many opinions on the subject, because people often saw the problem in completely different ways. At first, Whorf's claim that the language restricts us to think and imagine certain concepts was widely popular, causing massive dispute. Later, his accounts proved to be wrong simply because there was no actual evidence of such restrictions. Since then, this topic was neglected, and all the ideas about language affecting something in our minds were considered initially false. But now the scientific community has reconsidered the decision and put some effort in the research on this subject. So, this article is set to take up this question once again and revise the arguments, pointing out all the pros and cons to inform the public about the progress and introduce readers to the field.

Deutscher starts reasonably with describing the subject history, telling us how the ideas about the language's influence on our thinking appeared, changed, disappeared and then came out again to be reconsidered and rethought. Then the author points at the mistakes in Whorf's theory and poses an apology for his own research, marking the main distinction of his approach with a quote from Roman Jakobson: "Languages differ essentially in what they must convey and not in what they may convey". Therefore, Whorf's concept of language inhibitions is proven wrong, and now Deutscher begins to share the results of a new-line researchers’ inquiry with the reader.

Then come the direct examples from different languages. Deutscher finds and points out several interesting disimilarities between some languages, demonstrating their great diversity. He also keeps insisting that there are no restrictions – language may shape our thinking by adding some features, habits and abilities, but may not do so by roughly cutting something off.

First, he talks about the speakers’ optionality of specifying some details in English. The example is “I spent yesterday evening with a neighbor”, and here the speaker does not have to mention the neighbor’s sex. Oppositely, in German, Russian or French this is required by the language grammar. That is a first example that proves Jakobson’s point. Subsequently Deutscher mentions the idea of grammatical gender, which is absolutely absent in English but thrives in many other languages. That makes a tremendous difference in the perception of reality, because all objects around the speaker of a gender-enabled language appear to have some kind of a gender assignment. And that is yet to be as clear as we would like it to be.

Then the author comes with a curious example about the speakers of Australian aboriginal language, Guugu Yimithirr. These people do not use the egocentric directions like “left-right” or “front-behind”. For them, this concept is hard but not impossible to grasp. What they do use is a geographical directions system – based on the cardinal directions, “north-east-south-west”. All the native Guugu Yimithirr speakers have an inborn sense of these directions, and they never have any problem identifying them anytime in any conditions, except one – being moved off to a different spot. Their innate skill is developed throughout their lives and is conceivably based on the knowledge of their birthplace, and it has reached the point at which we can hardly believe it is real. All this, in correspondence with the research on the topic, shows that the diversity of perceiving the reality between our cultures is astonishing, mainly because the whole human development in the aboriginal society goes completely different way, which we cannot understand yet.

After that, Deutscher writes about color distinctions in different languages, stating that we are likely to perceive two colors as different ones if our language has this particular diversion.

In the end, he restates his initial assertion and concludes that we do not really think the same, and there is obviously a difference between cultures in that sense. But he also notes that this difference cannot be overestimated, and it is not researched well enough at the moment, so the knowledge we currently possess is not directly applicable.

The presented information is slightly scattered and insufficient to form any kind of concrete knowledge on the matter, but forming it clearly was not the original purpose of the author. The article is a good way to draw attention to the topic, dissolve the false assumptions and tell people about the general state of things in the research field. It is compelling, easy to read and quite informative for a popular entry.
