Review.
Horacio Salinas (2010). Does your language shape how you think.  The New York Times. 26, Aug.
In this article scientists try to find out the power of influence of our language on our mind. It is known that your mentality depend on your family, country and many other factors. But the most important thing that forms your attitude is native language. Using different methods and experiments, scientists decided to find out the differences of attitudes between native speakers of various languages.
In article Does your language shape how you think scientists try to prove the force of your native language. There are many amazing experiments with the speech in the article, that show us the power of language and different ways of thinking that is possible. However, scientists decided that people overestimate this influence. 
This idea appeared in 1940 and it was great but Benjamin Lee Whorf that created such an idea had no any materials to prove it. The main statement of his idea was that we totally depend on our language and it like an instinct. That is why this research was buried until the 2010. Then it became very popular and provoked many interesting language experiments. Reading this article, you find out a lot of facts that struck your imagination. All in all, that is no summarising in the article, so that looks like a set of the facts and description of the experiments.
All the experiments was divided into 4 different parts. The first one was an experiment with gender and sex. The scientists took German speaker and Spanish speaker than they chose some inanimate objects that have different sexes in these languages. Then they asked them to describe some their attributes. That was very interesting because in both languages man-sexed objects were described as something powerful, masculine and unshakable. On the contrary, all woman-sexes objects were very graceful, fragile and beautiful; so, the same object has very different descriptions in the different languages. There were another experiment like that: two different speakers were watching cartoons without any sound. Then they were asked to choose the voice for the fox in this movie. As in a previous experiment, the choice of voice was depended on the sex of the fox in current language.
The major part of the article was about different types of geographical orientation: geographic and egocentric. As for me, I have not ever heard about geographic orientation, so it was a tremendous fact for me. The writer describes Guugu Yimithirr language (Australia) as an example of geographic orientation language. That is quite strange for us because we got used to speak “right”, ”left”, ”straight” and ”back”. And they have a habit to use “south”, “north”, “east” and “west”. Moreover, these people have a perfect orientation in space, because they always certainly know where they are. I think we do not use such an orientation because it is not useful in the big countries and cities. For us it is much easier to have ourselves as a main point and several streets and building around us as supportive points of orientation. People with geographic orientation also have another outlook. There was an example in the article with two rooms. For us the room in the hotel that is opposite for us is the same, because all the furniture have the same places. But for man with geographic orientation they are two different because in the one room the bed is in the north and in the other in the south, for him that is two opposite things.
The third part was about the colours. That was the same idea, like different speakers can distinguish several colours better. And the fourth part was about the tenses in different languages. For me that was the most strange point of the article, because I usually imagine the past somewhere back and the future somewhere in front of me. So I cannot understand how it can be on the contrary.
As for me, the article is very interesting and the plot is quite clear, because all this text is constructed like “statement/fact-example”. I also do not see any problems with the logic except the introduction and conclusion. These two parts do not connected very well with the text. We also can see sharp transition from one subject of text to another. All in all, the structure is quite good.
For me such articles with many examples is much better than bare reasoning. All those facts were such unexpected and fantastic than reading this article was a real pleasure. The conclusion also was a surprise for me, because the writer said that we overestimate that influence. That was very strange to read after all those amazing experiments with our language.
I think it will be very interesting to read this article both for linguists, and for all other people.
