Does Your Language Shape How You Think? by Guy Deutscher


The article presents a study of how a language can affect people's mind. This article was published in 1940 in a popular science magazine. The author, Benjamin Lee Whorf,  is a chemical engineer who worked for an  insurance company and moonlighted as an anthropology lecture at Yale University. 70 years ago his  theories crash-landed on hard facts and solid common sense, but nowadays it is a well known fact, that's because these theories contained mistakes. That is why modern linguists are interested in this field of science.


After introductory paragraphs there are paragraphs where the author highlights some interesting language's features. He has two themes: gender and orientation. Later he explains why some words are masculine  in german and feminine in spanish, while feminine nouns in german become masculine in spanish. He also says that if person's mother-tongue does not have gender, it does not make any troubles while learning a language with gender system. In the following paragraphs the deals with comparisons of languages with geographic directions and egocentric coordinates. In which situations these systems can be used and their pros and cons. Benjamin Lee Whorf claims that the habits of mind were instilled in humans from infancy, and that they shape person's orientation to the world as well as emotional responses and etc. 


This article seems to be extremely engaging. The problem's description is stated clearly so the reader can easily understand it. Arguments are really detailed and impressive. They not only show author's point of view but give some compelling information. The conclusion is also very clear. It perfectly sums up all above. Author's writing style is elegant and pleasant. There are no problems with coherence.  The article is suitable for everyone with upper-intermediate level of English or higher. The reader does not need to be acquainted with linguistics, because there are no specific words which can confuse him/her. Also, in order not to bother the reader, there are some stories, which support his theories. However, the author does not provide a detailed conclusion, he is convinced that human beings may not know how to measure all the consequences yet. But a first step toward understanding one another has been made and it is just a question of time.


To sum up all above, this article might be suitable for both linguists and non-linguists. The reader has a stake in the whole text. And after finishing reading the article, the person will probably have a thought in his/her mind that further reading might be interesting and cognitive as well.
