DOES THE LANGUAGE SHAPE HOW WE THINK?     
                                                                                                       
 For a long time people were interested in understanding the influence of the language on its speakers' way of thinking. Many philosophers tried to establish connection between national character and its language. 

The Israeli linguist Guy Deutscher explores the correlation between the language and the way of thinking by its native speakers in his article "Does the language shape how we think?" He tells us about the history of exploring this problem and about the most important scientific theories related to it. 

The author says that this discussion started by linguists 70 years ago when Benjamin Lee Whorf who studied Native American languages concluded that their way of thinking about the world was totally different from those who spoke European languages. 

The author describes the Whorf's theory and shows its shortcomings. The most serious of them was Whorf's postulate that the language makes impossible for its speakers to think some thoughts. Deutscher proves that it is wrong: if it was true, people whose language does not have the feature of the tense would not be able to understand this feature. He says that Whorf's theory was criticized by scientists and for a long time nobody tried to explore influence of the language on people's thoughts, but few years ago linguists started to revisit this question. 

Deutscher says that the new studies have shown that the language really have a big influence on speakers mind set, but not in the way that Whorf thought. The author gives the words of Roman Jakobson: "Languages differ essentially in what they must convey and not in what they may convey."
The article contains many examples of this. Firstly, some languages have gender for not-animated subjects. Because of that people speaking those languages associate all subjects with a gender and this associations can be different in different languages.

The biggest difference in mind set is between people speaking languages with different orientation. The author describes two system of orientation: egocentric based on part of the body and geocentric based on geographical coordinates. In geocentric languages people do not have words "right" and "left" and use instead of them "north", "south", "west" and "east". People speaking these languages always remember their geographical orientation. This is completely different from people speaking egocentric languages who usually even do not know where North or East are. 

Other examples are different understanding of colors and different forms of evidentiality in some languages. 

Deutscher concludes the article by saying that mother-tongue is not a "prison-house" for its speakers mind, but the culturally specific features of the people are usually reflected in their languages and there for their thinking can be affected by that.

The main value of the Deutscher's article is that it gives a lot of examples of interesting features of the languages that he has analyzed. 

At the same time, there are some weaknesses in this article. First of all, it is extremely important to answer the question "Does the mind of speakers influence their language?" before discussing the main subject of the article. If the answer is "yes", we can say that their language is influenced by their way of thinking, but their mind is not influenced by their language and the studying of the article would lose all logic. The author ignores this problem though. Secondly, there is very little information about the scholars who studied of the  languages discussed in the article. So the reader who wants to know, for example, about Guugu Yimithirr or Matses language do not know which studies they should be referred to. 

Despite the above criticisms the  Deutscher's article is very important, because it provides a lot of information about this subject. 
