Deutscher, G. (2010). Does your language shape how you think? The New York Times, 26 Aug.

In the following critique the article “Does your language shape how you think?” by Guy Deutscher is reviewed. In his work the author concerns the problem whether our language has the power over the mind or not. This topic can be interesting both for general public and researchers.

Guy Deutscher considers that our mother tongue influences our thoughts and this influence varies across the different languages. The author explains that if some concept is missing in a language, it does not mean that speakers of this language are unable to understand this concept, it means that they do not have to consider it. For example, English speakers in contrast to German or French ones do not mention the sex of their neighbors, friends or teachers. And it is not because they cannot understand the difference between males or females, they simply are not obliged by grammar to do this. Deutscher claims that such habits of speech settle into habits of mind and this affects our experiences, associations, memories and orientation in the world. 

In order to support this statement, the author provides a wide range of evidences. First of all, he mentions experiments that have shown that grammatical genders shape the associations of speakers toward inanimate objects around them. In particular, when Spanish and German speakers were asked to characterize objects that had reversed genders in these languages, Spaniards described words that are masculine in Spanish generally with manly features, while Germans described the same words that are feminine in German with elegant features. 

Secondly, Deutscher indicates that speakers of different languages perceive space around them in discriminate ways.  For instance, English speakers use egocentric coordinates and terms like ‘in front of’, ‘behind’, ‘on the left’, ‘on the right’. At the same time speakers of a Australian aboriginal tongue, Guugu Yimithirr, orient themselves with the help of geographic coordinates and say ‘north’, ‘south’, ‘west’ and ‘east’. They not only always know where the cardinal directions are but also memorize events according to these directions. Such system is not natural or intelligible for English speakers. 

Moreover, the author points at two more sophisticated arguments: divergent perception of colours and “evidentiality” among speakers of different languages. In the end, Deutscher concludes that people do need to understand that we do not think the same and now we have to measure the consequences of our diversity for our life, cross-cultural or political misunderstandings.

Due to the animated language of this article it seems to be elegant and impressive. Deutscher uses many ‘emotional’ expressions and words, metaphors, insightful comparisons and in some places humour. This makes the article not only scientific but also popular with the majority of people.

An array of detailed examples is another positive aspect of Deutscher’s article. The author provides every of his statement with an evidence and example which makes his article comprehensive and convincing. 

Also, the author puts engaging questions – whether habits of mind shape tastes, fashions and habits in various societies; whether speakers of egocentric and geographic languages have different attitude to life and their place in the world; whether speakers of languages like Matses in Peru have another sense of truth and causation. It is a provocative method to intrigue the readers.

To sum up, it is the intelligible and inspiring article that can persuade its audience to read the whole book relating to this theme.
