Review
Deutscher, G. (2010). New York Times. 26 August.

The idea of language influence on way of thinking seems to be very simple and essential, because speaking is one of the basic initial human’s skills. This idea was first put forward by Benjamin Lee Whorf  in his article “Science and Linguistics” in 1940. However, the article wasn’t really argumentative and consisted of assumptions. The problem is that it is hard to explore this influence, scientists need to create extraordinary ways of researching. 

In the article Does Your language Shape How You Think, Deutscher tries to find out in what particular way our mother tongue influences our minds. He says that no languages forbid its speakers to think anything, they just oblige us to think about different things. Mother tongue “forces us to be attentive to certain details in the world and to certain aspects of experience that speakers of other languages may not be required to think about all the time”. Because of the fact that language acquisition takes place in early age, mother tongue undoubtedly affects our perception of the world.

Deutscher gives fascinating examples of how language can influence way of thinking. For instance, he explores different ways of describing space orientation. The author posits two major types of orientation: with egocentric coordinates (a left-right axis and a front-back axis) and with geographic directions (a north-south axis and an east-west axis). Speakers of geographic languages don’t use such notions as “left” or “right” at all. Deutscher also describes some habits of mind which develop “because of the necessity of specifying geographic directions all the time”. For example, geographic language speakers’ memories have to be stored with cardinal directions as a part of the whole picture.

To conclude Deutsher postulates that there are much more consequences of the habits of mind than were experimentally demonstrated. Such conclusion of the article seems rather obscure to me because the author doesn’t summarize previous results of the discussion. The generalization of main ideas of the article is strongly needed in the last paragraph. 

Another shortcoming of Deutscher’s article is the absence of the descriptions of explorations. The author just posits that various research took place and discusses their results. To my mind, the detailed explanation of how research were carried out is a significant part of this topics and plays an important role in understanding of his theory. Moreover, it also seems to be interesting and fascinating for ordinary people, non-linguists.

Despite the above criticisms, Deutscher’s article is really engaging and thought-provoking. It contains rather unusual and extraordinary ideas and of course striking examples from different languages. Deutscher succeeded in writing a publicistic article, which is easy to read for ordinary people and can be also useful for linguists.
