Deutscher, G. (2010). Does Your Language Shape How You Think? The New York Times, August 26.
In different societies people use different languages. It goes without saying that a community influences the way people view the world. But this isn’t the only factor which forms the thinking of the people. The idea that a language is connected with people’s world view is presented in the article «Does Your Language Shape How You Think?» by G.Deutscher. 
The author offers persuasive arguments for making this statement. Firstly, Deutscher considers that our language doesn’t allow us to think only in one direction but it obliges to mention some points. Providing the background for the idea, the scientist gives examples from different languages about what people have to mention in their speech. The author continues with the gender situation in different languages. There are systems without grammatical genders for inanimate objects, grammatical systems which match all the nouns with one out of three genders and there are a lot of other languages. And the features of this type influence the way people think about the things. It means that, for example, inanimate objects are treated differently in languages without grammatical genders and in languages with grammatical genders. Moreover, things marked with different genders aren’t treated in the same way. Secondly, to illustrate the hypothesis of different world view, the author describes different systems of the orientation of the world: «with egocentric coordinates» and «with geographic directions». It should be mentioned that these systems can be combined in some languages. For instance, in our language we use the system with geographic directions when we are in the countryside or when we need to plan a route. But when we are in the shopping center we usually use the system with egocentric coordinates to explain how to get to the shop. And this will be strange for us to talk about the place of the furniture in the flat, nevertheless in some languages it is the only one variant. Of course, there are many other things different in the languages. The scientist also mentions different colour systems and systems with «more subtle areas of perception».
Personally, I believe that is article is written clearly with great arguments. The work is informative and useful for future investigations. And I think that the article would have benefited from more detailed examples of different colour systems. 
«Does Your Language Shape How You Think?» by G.Deutscher is an interesting article which makes you think about the language and its great influence on our minds.
