Guy Deutscher (2010). “Does Your Language Shape How You Think?”. The New York Times. 
In this article Guy Deutscher describes the influence of people’s mother tongue on the way of their thinking. In the beginning of the article the author tells us that the connection between the language and its speaker was the subject of wide speculation in the 20th century, and he shows some examples of it. The main idea of it was that the language obliges our mind and doesn’t allow us to think in the particular way. But all these thoughts were mistaken, and Guy Deutscher proves it to the reader using the striking examples, like gender in English and German. The main author’s claim is that the language definitely has an influence on the native’s mid, but it does not mean that some thoughts are hidden from people, who cannot say it; the assertion is that all nations have their own methods to explain same thoughts and some languages don’t oblige its speakers to think about some aspect that are essential in another language. For example, Chinese doesn’t constrain its speaker to determine the time of action, but at the same time in English you should mention the timing of event, that was considered in the article.  The author also presents the examples of how we describe the orientation of the world around us.  And he speaks about two different ways of orientation: egocentric and geographic methods. Speakers use different words to explain the directions and the orientation, and consequently they think in different ways, nevertheless still they consider the same situations. But one example is really thought-provoking, when the author tell us about two hotel rooms, they are the same for “egocentric” people and absolutely different for “geographic”.  It shows that we have different reality in our minds thinking about the same. Finally, Guy Deutscher claims that today we cannot surely understand if our language shapes us or not. But proofs tell us that the languages are different.  The article contains some interesting thoughts, that are clearly demonstrated and proved for the reader.
