Deutscher, G. (2010) Does Your Language Shape How You Think? The New York Times, 26 August

Does language influence people’s ability to conceptualize various aspects of the world? This issue, popular in the middle of the 20th century, is attracting attention again with the introduction of advanced linguistic research methods. In his article, “Does Your Language Shape How You Think?” Guy Deutscher explores the possible connection between language structure and its speakers’ mental habits.

Deutscher begins by setting the background and describing the pivot work on the issue, “Science and Linguistics” by Benjamin Lee Whorf. This article was published in 1940 and immediately sparked the debates on whether or not the language can really shape human thought. While Deutscher acknowledges the article’s impact, he addresses it critically; namely, he states that Whorf’s ideas are categorical and lack proof. Due to these weaknesses, he says, the theory had soon been abandoned, until very recent times.

Deutscher suggests looking on the issue from another point of view. Rather than searching for limitations imposed on the speakers by their language, he proposes to study differences in people’s thought patterns. The author states that, because of certain grammatical and lexical features of languages, speakers are forced to pay extra attention to various aspects of the world around them. Deutscher then provides an extensive argumentation of his proposal, supported by numerous examples from the languages of the world.

To begin with, grammatical gender is said to influence speakers’ feelings towards objects. According to the author, this is proven by experiments with voice assignment, where participants unconsciously choose masculine or feminine voices for inanimate objects depending on these objects’ gender in their language. Voices aside, speakers tend to impersonate other gender-related qualities onto things, such as strength or elegance, in accordance with grammatical gender. Naturally, speakers of different languages may show exactly the opposite results in such tests, if gender for a given object is reversed in their languages.

The main argument Deutscher provides for his point is different systems of coordinates:  egocentric and geographical. Deutscher argues that in languages with geographical system of coordinates, speakers develop extremely acute sense of orientation. This happens, he says, because their language forces them to be constantly aware of cardinal directions, for this is the only way to speak about positions. What makes it more dramatic, is that the speakers seem to accurately remember all directions for future references, should they like to retell the story. They also naturally point in the correct direction, when making gestures during speech, no matter which way they are facing. This, Deutscher says, is a vivid example of how language incorporates into our way of thinking.

The article is concluded with additional examples: evidentiality and colors. To summarize, Deutscher restates his opinion on the matter: the language is not a “prison house that  
constrained our capacity to reason”. The language, he says, shapes the way we perceive the world, but only in changing mental priorities, not restricting them.

Having given the summary, we turn to article evaluation. Unlike many columnist predecessors, Deutscher attempts to provide valid linguistic arguments to support his opinion. In our view, the author succeeded in making his point; the article is well-structured and easy to read, the argumentation is extensive and clear. The in-depth discussion of coordinate systems is particularly impressive. Throughout the text, Deutscher explains complex phenomena with ease, making linguistic notions available to the broad audience of New York Times. We would like to, however, express some criticism concerning the quality of examples.
It appeared, as we were reading the article, that the quality of arguments was somewhat inconsistent. The opening example of grammatical gender invokes skepticism if the reader does not share the author’s sense of gender in inanimate objects. We must note that the studies mentioned later in the article make this point more convincing. Nevertheless, towards the end of this section, Deutscher loses focus once again by asking a series of unanswered questions. Moving on, the systems of coordinates are, without doubt, the central and the most powerful argument of this work. The concluding sections of the article, however, leave the feeling of incompleteness due to lack of detail. After reading a good three pages on Guugu Yimithirr, one expects to find equally brilliant paragraphs on colors and evidentiality. Instead, the reader is presented with a stub, as if the author was making some last-minute amendments. In addition, we noticed a contradiction: if the language does not constrain speakers’ perception, how would differences in color names affect our impressions of paintings?

Despite the criticism above, Guy Deutscher managed to skillfully express a new and sensible approach to the problem of language and mind. Moreover, he made both the theory and his own opinion accessible to the non-linguistic audience, which makes this article truly remarkable.
