The article is adapted from G. Deutscher’s new book Through the Language Glass: Why the World Looks Different in Other Languages and it sets out to study the relation between language and thought. This topic was firstly brought up in Benjamin Lee Whorf’s article “Science and Linguistics” and his idea “dazzled both academics and the general public alike” (Deutscher, 2010). After a long period of oblivion, the heated debate on whether language influences one’s thoughts resumed and G. Deutscher presented his point of view on this issue. 
In the article, the author outlines drawbacks of Whorf’s theory claiming that “languages impose on their speakers a picture of reality that is totally different from others” and that “their speakers would simply not be able to understand some of [its] basic concepts” (Deutscher, 2010). Then Deutscher suggests new description of the relation between thought and language. He starts with an announcement of his main idea: “different languages influence our minds in different ways …not because of what our language allows us to think but rather because of what it habitually obliges us to think about” (Deutscher, 2010). 
In the following paragraphs, he provides us with proofs of it. In particularly, he discusses the obligation of expression some grammar meanings in a word. Moreover, he illustrates the hypothesis by examples of speakers’ associations with certain words depending on grammar features of different languages. In order to support his claims, Deutscher also mentions some experiments and stories about people who experienced such differences between mentalities of speakers.
Nevertheless, to conclude the article the author avoid categorical propositions and warns that, despite all the evidences, it is a mistake to overestimate the importance of abstract reasoning in our lives.
There is much to admire in Deutscher's work. It is an impressive pattern of popular science article. The general idea makes sense and thanks to logical organization of the text and interesting examples, it is accessible and engaging for a mass reader. It also provides practical knowledge about cross-cultural communication. 
Nonetheless, some things could be improved. First of all, the conclusion sounds a little bit inconsistent when the author restricts the sphere of his theory influence after all the convincing propositions. Besides, arguments would have been more valid, if there were references to sources of the mentioned information. However, it was not an aim of the article to be a fundamental study.
Thus, even taking into account the above criticisms, Deutscher's work succeeded in representation of the author’s convictions and intentions expressed in his book.
