In his article “Does Your Language Shape How You Think” Guy Deutscher considers the concept that language has power over one’s mind. In the beginning, Deutscher discusses about the claim, which was made by Benjamin Lee Whorf, a chemical engineer. Whorf states, that our native language constrains our mind and we are unable to grasp concepts, which are not given words to, in our language. He said that when a language does not have a particular word for a concept, it could not be understood by the speaker. Deutscher believes, that this theory  is not  founded. He gives an example that there is no term for German word Schadenfreude in English, it does not mean that an English speaker is unable to comprehend the concept of pleasure in someone else’s misery.

After stating that Whorf’s claim was wrong, Deutscher poses his own theory that languages do influence the mind, “not because of what our language allows us to think but rather because of what it habitually obliges us to think about”

In the following parts, Deutscher basically confirms why he believes that our languages do not force or constrain us to think a certain way, rather, they influence consist in to think about certain concepts that have been implanted in our minds.
To second these ideas Deutscher provides some evidences which are parted to three aspects.
The first aspect was gender. Examples that he has used are that in English while in conversation we are not obliged to indicate what sex we are referring to (“I spent yesterday evening with my neighbor”) while in German or French we must give it for each noun. In these languages you should give genders to objects, and that influences their mind to bind the objects with the gender. For instance, die Brücke, or the bridge, is female in German and it becomes a preconscious habit. However they are not  believe that the inanimate objects have a gender, it is what they are associated with, because their mind has been influenced as a result of their mother tongue.
Another aspect in Deutscher’s argument is the directions. Most countries would describe directions with terms such as “left,” “right,” “behind,” “ahead” but in some places such as remote Aboriginal Australia or Bali, they use cardinal directions in the everyday life, so everything they describe with east and west. “They couldn’t explain it any more than you can explain how you know where behind is” indicating that it comes naturally due to their brought up in the language. 
The third aspect is colors where two different colors in English would be shades of the same color in another languages 
Our native language affects our logical, intuitional and emotional outlook on the world but it does not mean that it limits how much we can learn.
