In this article scientists try to find out the power of influence of our language on our minds. It is known that your mentality depends on your family, country and many other factors. But the most important thing that forms your attitude is your native language. Using different methods and experiments, scientists seek for the differences of attitudes between native speakers of various languages.

In article "Does your language shape how you think" scientists try to prove the force of your native language. There are many amazing experiments performed on studying the speech in the article which show us the power of language and different ways of thinking that are possible. However, scientists have decided that people overestimate this influence. 
This idea appeared in 1940 and it was great but its creator Benjamin Lee Whorf did not have enough resources to prove it. The main statement of his idea is that we totally depend on our language and use it like an instinct. That is why this research was buried until the 2010. Then it became very popular and provoked many interesting language experiments. Reading this article, you find out many facts that struck your imagination. 

All the experiments have been divided into 4 different parts. The first one iss an experiment with gender and sex. The scientists have asked German speaker and Spanish speaker to chose some inanimate objects that have different sexes in these languages. Then they asked them to describe some of inanimate objects' characterestics. That was very interesting because in both languages masculine-sexed objects were described as something powerful and unshakable. On the contrary, all feminine-sexes objects were very graceful, fragile and beautiful; so, the same object can have very different descriptions in different languages. 

The major part of the article is about different types of geographical orientation: geographic and egocentric. As for me, I have not ever heard about geographic orientation, so it was a tremendous fact for me. The writer describes Guugu Yimithirr language (Australia) as an example of geographic orientation language. That is quite strange for us because we got used to speak “right”, ”left”, ”straight” and ”back”. And they have a habit to use “south”, “north”, “east” and “west”. Moreover, these people have a perfect orientation in space, because they always certainly know where they are. I think we do not use such orientation because it is not useful in the large countries and cities. For us it is much easier to have ourselves as a main subject and several streets and building around us as supportive points of orientation. People with geographic orientation also have different outlook.

Тhe third part is about colours. The same idea is present here that different language speakers can distinguish several colours better than others. And the fourth part is about the tenses in different languages. For me that iss the most strange point in the article, because I usually imagine the past somewhere back and the future somewhere in front of me. So I cannot understand how it can be expressed differently.

As for me, the article is very interesting and the plot is quite clear, because all this text is constructed like “statement/fact-example”. I also do not see any problems with the logic except the introduction and conclusion. These two parts are not connected very well with the text. There is no summarising in the article, rather a set of the facts and descriptions of the experiments. The good point is that we can see sharp transition from one subject in the text to another. All in all, the text is well-structured.

For me such articles with many examples are much better than bare reasoning. All those facts seem intriguing that makes reading this article a real pleasure. The conclusion also is a surprise for me, because the writer says that we overestimate the influence of the language. 

I think it will be very interesting to read this article both for linguists, and for all other people.
