Deutscher, G. (2010). Does the language shape how you think? The New York Times, 26 Aug

What if our language affects the way we perceive the world? The means by which we describe the reality around us shape how we think of it. As a consequence, speakers of different languages have different images of the world. But this may be true both for languages and their speakers.

The article “Does the language shape how you think?” presents the investigation on the topic made by Guy Deutscher. He argues that speakers of different languages have the same capacity to understand general concepts, and they differ only in things they focus on. Deutscher provides examples from research of well-known languages, such as English, French and German, and some exotic languages – Guugu Yimithirr and Matses, and compares them.

Deutscher discusses the idea that prevailed in science for a long time: the language determines the way people think, and if the notion does not exist in the language, it does not exist in minds. It was disproved in latter works, but gave ground to new discoveries and subjects of interest.

For instance, the most spread problem is connected with gender. Gender is assigned even to inanimate objects and shapes feelings of speakers towards these objects. Experiments like voice assignment or giving names show that gender affects associative thinking as well.

Another striking evidence of how different can the world be perceived is space orientation. There have been discovered two systems of coordinates: egocentric and geocentric. Geocentric coordinates depend on geographical terms “south”, “north”, “east” and “west” and are an absolute coordination system. Egocentric coordinates are more common for speakers of Standard European Languages, and terms “left” and “right” are used. Supposedly, the way we orient in world affects our mental picture and memory. This was investigated through several experiments with Guugu Yimithirr speakers, in which they had to memorize and describe space.

The other example is color perception, which differs in different languages and affects how we describe what we see.  The last example Deutscher gives is the existence of evidentiality. Speakers are obliged to mention whether he experienced himself what he tells.

According to all the evidences provided by Deutscher, language does shape how we think, but in the terms of description of the world. Still, further research has to be made and we cannot say for sure whether people with different native languages have different perception.

Deutscher’s work may be criticized for being amateur. I cannot agree with this, as it is written for general public not acquainted with linguistics.

The article is able to intrigue readers by virtue of a good structure and well thought-out elaboration. Firstly, Deutscher states the main argument and his opinion, gives examples from the most common and well-know language, then from exotic languages to impress readers and leaves an open ending, as scientists are not certain concerning the problem.
