Topic
Write a critical review of Deutscher's article "Does your language shape how you think"
Deutscher, G. (2010). Does your language shape how you think. The New York Times, 26 Aug.
In the article “Does your language shape how to think” Guy Deutscher explores different points of view on the following issue: how our mother-tongue influences our mind? He tries to find advantages and disadvantages of the Benjamin Lee Whorf's theory and find the answer with the data of different languages and cultures. The author's arguments and si\uppositions may be unteresting not only for linguists, but also for ordinary people, who are keen on linguistics or different scientific researches.
 
In order to support this contention, Deutscher calls in question the assumption that “if a language has no word for a certain concept, then its speakers would not be able to understand this concept". The author claims that it's not a true and suggests to observe different languages to understand how a mother-tongue influences bearer. Deutscher takes a basis the fact which was pointed out by Roman Jakobson: languages differ in what they must convey and not in what they may convey. Deutscher briefly reviews some factors in different languages.  For instance, he describes an interesting experiment: "French and Spanish speakers were asked to assign human voices to
various objects in a cartoon. When French speakers saw a picture of a fork (la fourchette), most
of them wanted it to speak in a woman’s voice, but Spanish speakers, for whom el tenedor is
masculine, preferred a gravelly male voice for it". The speaker has clear associations which are appear when he/she thinks about an object. He/she imagines the sex of these things. That's why they choose one or another voice. Then Deutscher shows different systems of orientation. For example, a remote Australian aboriginal tongue, Guugu Yimithirr, doesn't make any use of egocentric coordinates at all.

In conclusion the author asserts that “The habits of mind that our culture has
instilled in us from infancy shape our orientation to the world and our emotional responses to the
objects we encounter, and their consequences probably go far beyond what has been
experimentally demonstrated so far; they may also have a marked impact on our beliefs, values
and ideologies”.

Leaving aside the positive developments which Deutscher's study added to our knowledge of a profound effect of a mother-tongue on bearer, there are several criticisms which can be levelled at this work. First of all, the author doesn't take into consideration the fact that not only the language influences a bearer, there are a lot of different factors which can do it: the culture, the family, the surroundings etc. Moreover, people can use different words and constructions not only because of the language. It can depend on the habits of people and on their manner of speaking, “etiquette”.

Despite the above criticisms, this article is very interesting and well-structured. There are examples from languages all over the world and they really show that mother-tongue can shape how people think.
