Modern world is the world of money and business. People are working in giant international companies to earn more and more money, and successful companies are getting larger and larger. But what is the purpose of this success and development? Is it all about concurrence and discipline, or prosperity of the company depends on the happiness of people who work there?
It is strongly believed that modern business treats people just like ants or mechanisms that are able or unable to work and solve different problems. The more you work – the more you earn. And it seems to make sense, because it is impossible to imagine that international company like Microsoft can pay attention on interests or psychological conditions of it’s every member. Moreover, it is not only about big companies: the main rule of business is that if you can’t do your job – you will lose it. And it doesn’t matter if the purpose was psychological or not.
In my opinion, the situation is much more complicated. It is right that in modern business people are just a type of resource. However, it doesn’t mean that they are like firewood, gas, oil or even ants. And the employer doesn’t have to be «kind» person to pay attention on happiness of his employees. He should be just a clever businessman. The point is that all the members of company have not only different abilities, but also different motivation. And only the satisfaction of working process can motivate them to show all their abilities. If the only thing that interests a person in his job is money and successful carrier, he won’t work for the success of company or he won’t work at all. Consequently, the effectiveness of such an employee will be much lower than the effectiveness of a person, who loves his job, who feels himself comfortable in the company, and who treats his job as a part of his life.
In conclusion, I want to say that psychological health and happiness of every member of company is very important in business. It is not because it is good or bad – it is the consequence of the character of human motivation. Successful business can be developed only if all the members from head director to part-time worker will work like an unite «organism», and if all the parts of this «organism» are happy about what they do.
