The motion for today is “A few West Coast tech giants have become a serious threat to our basic freedoms and the democratic wellbeing of all of us”. In my opinion, this is one of the actual themes to discuss in our days, because the technologies are taking an important part in our lives. I would like to highlight the keywords in the motion. I think, “tech giants”, “serious threat”, “freedom” and “democratic wellbeing” are the keywords. It helps us to understand that idea of the motion is that the biggest tech companies pose a threat to us. Is it true? I will try to present my point of view on this motion below.
First of all, let me to describe the situation as a whole. As we can see, speakers for the motion at the debates tried to bring an idea that tech giants have a great influence on us. We all have accounts in the most popular social networks. We spend our time, chatting with friends, scrolling a news feed, watching videos, sharing information. All our information is located in the network. People are scared about an idea that the government can use it for its own purposes. They are frightened by the possibility that special services listen to phone calls and misinform us in social networks. However, the speakers against the motion think that all in our hands. Elizabeth Linder said that technologies only improve our lives. She believes that people have an ability to abandon social networks and there are no problems to avoid negative influence. It is difficult to say who is right, because everyone has good arguments. Nevertheless, I for this motion and there several reasons for this.
Firstly, we should remember a story associated with Edward Snowden, when he demonstrate all the world the fact, that the US special services listen to people’s phone calls. After that, Apple admitted that it provides access to all telephone conversations that are carried out using their smartphones. On the one hand, they try to prevent a terrorist attack. On the other hand, they can use it for their own purposes without any user permission.
Secondly, I want to touch on the topic of elections in the United States. We know that Donald Trump won this election. However, not everyone knows what helped him to do it. There is a company Cambridge Analytica, which helped Donald Trump to demonstrate targeted advertising in Facebook, using Machine Learning technology and the data of Facebook users. This technology uses user data to build individual text, based on tastes and views. People see the advertising text that they want to see, which has a big impact on them. This case demonstrates to us that such technologies in combination with social networks pose a serious threat, since they can inspire any idea.
Finally, try to imagine the modern world without Google, Facebook, YouTube, Apple Inc. and other tech giants. It is difficult to do it, because all our actions, all our work are closely associated with their products. We are very dependent on them. If they increase prices for their products, we will have to put up with it. If they openly transmit our information to the state, we will have to put up with it again, because we cannot use the old approaches to work.
In conclusion, the largest technology companies pose a serious threat to us, as they have the ability to influence our lives, influence our point of view, and our lives are closely related to these technologies. Pinar Akman said: “They are big, because they are good”. It is true. They make our lives easier, they help to solve complex problems. However, history has demonstrated the impact that can have on us people who have access to it.