Nowadays we are living in era of technologies. We cannot even imagine our lives without smartphones, Facebook, Google. Those tech giants – along with other companies like Microsoft, Netflix and Amazon – have become so large and powerful that people are paying closer attention to how they affect our lives. But do they really shape the thoughts and feelings of a billion of people?
It may sounds crazy, but it actually exists. When you pull out your phone and see a notification it schedules you to have thoughts that maybe you didn’t intend to have. If you swipe over that notification it schedules you into spending a little bit of time getting sucked into something that maybe you didn’t intend to get sucked into.
When we talk about technologies we tend to talk about it as a greatest opportunity for people to improve their lives. And they are not evolving randomly. There is a hidden goal driving direction of all of the technology we make, and that goal is the race of our attention. Because every new site (Facebook, The Economist, Online games and etc.) have to compete for one thing – our attention. And the best way to get people attention is to know how someone’s minds works. There is a whole bunch of persuasive techniques that influence our minds.
A simple example is YouTube. That web site wants to maximize how much time you spend watching different videos. And what do they do? They auto play the next video. And, to be honest, that works really well! They are getting a little bit more of people’s time.
We can also say that about Netflix – they auto play the next episode, Facebook – they auto play all the videos in the newsfeed before waiting for you to click play. And please don’t tell me that you skip all the unnecessary stuff...
Just imagine that someone really want to schedule thoughts into your mind. Do you think it will be hard? Absolutely, no. So you can target a lie to the people who are most susceptible. And because it’s profitable it’s only getting worse.
And the cost is so urges. This problem underneath all other problems. It’s changing the way of our conversations, it’s changing our democracy and it’s changing our ability to have the conversations and relationships we want with each other. And it affects everyone, because billion of people have a smartphone in their pocket, use Facebook, Amazon, Google and other tech giants.
How do we fix that? We need to make radical changes to technology and to our society: we need to acknowledge that we are persuadable. Once you start understanding that your mind can be scheduled into having little thought that you didn’t choose, wouldn’t we use that understanding against the way that it happens? I think we need to see ourselves fundamentally in a new way. There might be something we want to protect…