I’m inclined to disagree with the motion.
First of all, we need to understand what is meant in the motion, what do tech giants do, that we can call it a threat to our basic freedoms and the democratic wellbeing. Basically, those who want to change the state of art claim that tech giants are so powerful that they can influence user’s political views in favour of populism by 1) creating the filter bubbles; 2) reinforcing the biases. Also, tech giants create the situation where users surrender their personal data for nothing when companies are selling this data to third parties so they can show every user a hypertargeted (sic!) advertisement.
I’d like to start with the political views case. Obviously, favourite point of those who see tech giants as a threat is the Presidential election case featuring Twitter and Russia (allegedly). Yes, social media can (and will) create the filter bubble around user if he willing to. How does that work? People surround themselves with the information they agree on and don’t let anything that is opposing their views to sink in. But how is that different from, for example, how people choose what to watch on TV? In the USA some TV channels are pro-democratic, some – pro-republican. The desire to be right is in our nature, and if people share one point of view they are very reluctant to consume any information that proves them wrong (so-called confirmation bias). It gets more intense in the social media, probably, because it is more difficult to get out from the info-bubble than to press a button on the TV remote. But this issue is more about one’s willingness rather than accessibility. Back to the Twitter case – even if there were any sort of foreign intervention – the only side that should be punished is the foreign state. It is not guns who are killing people; it is people wielding those guns.
The other very controversial part of this topic is of course the data case. The state of art is the following – tech giants collect and analyse user’s research history and other data in order to suggest them the most relevant goods they can possibly want at the moment. There were a beautiful case back in 2012 when Target figured out that the user (teen girl) is pregnant, “before her father did”, according to the Forbes. Even though Target is not one of the tech giants, the example is pretty sound. Opponents claim that this data is the price users pay for enjoying the goods tech giants provide, yet it is not fair. Both Facebook and Google provide a lot of free (of monetary charge) goods for more than a billion people now. Isn’t it only fair to make profit from the something that people gladly give to you in exchange to use your services? Moreover, the targeted ad is beneficial for both sellers and buyers as it makes easier for sides to find each other. Just to sum up, state of art is people using social media for free and getting relevant ads instead of tons of unrelated stuff. Seems like win-win situation, but why do some oppose it?
The answer is simple. They do, because they believe it is wrong. And they want to change it independently from what actual users think. Paternalistic logic is always wrong because no one can choose for everybody else. It is every one’s personal choice whether to use social media or not. It is very obvious for any user that their data is used for targeted ads. And somehow it doesn’t turn them away from using the services they use now. There is only one definition of fair price – it is the price customer agrees to pay for goods or services. Not to mention that there is a lot of ways to reduce the amount of “footprints” that one leaves in the internet.
Tech giants can’t be a threat to our basic freedoms if we are using their service voluntarily. There is no threat if there is no violence in broader sense, when there is no stealing. And what about democracy – tech giants only give people what they want to have. As one of the speakers said, they are big because they are good (for their users).