In this essay I will discuss the mentioned concern about constantly growing power of  technological companies relying upon the following sources:  the debates on the platform “Intelligence Squared” held in January 2018 arguing the motion  “Break Up The Tech Giants” (hereinafter – the debates), the articles “The Upside of Being Ruled by the Five Tech Giants” by Farhad Manjoo, “Is It Time to Break Up Google?” by Jonathan Taplinapril and “Is It Time To Break Up Amazon, Apple, Facebook, or Google?” by James Heskett.
The most hot-debated topic was the monopoly of the tech companies what is of a particular interest for us as a society aiming to preserve democracy and its values. Although one of the panelist of the debates, Pinar Akman, who is a competition law expert and a Professor of Law at the University of Leeds, states that Facebook, Google, Amazon and similar companies generally complies with antitrust regulations and therefore could not be regarded as monopolists, there is an opinion that such companies are the monopolists in fact expressed by Luke Johnson and  Rana Foroohar during the debates and Jemes Heskett in his article. The latter posing a rhetorical question: “Can you name Google’s closest competitor in search and search-related advertising?” implies that answer is negative and the majority of readers will agree with that. Jonathan Taplinapril mentions several studies on the drawbacks of anti-competitive practices related to economic inequality usually rising because of monopolies’ behavior, but does it endanger the democracy?
As Rana Foroohar said these tech giants create an information bubbles around each of us, exploit our need to be cost-effective by acquiring our data (as her colleague Luke Johnson states without our understanding and with illusive consent) and use it to promote goods we possibly will want to buy. Is manipulation of our choices not a threat of the democracy? Luke Johnson added that a well-known manipulation with the president’s elections was caused exactly with the help of a platform created by such a company. The data the companies have, he said, allows them to conduct social experiments without user’s knowledge and consent or with explicitly stated admission we send by clicking but never read, and furthermore, even its top management acknowledges that they did mistakes. It turns out to be more frightening when we realize that, as Farhad Manjoo writes, “they have managed to control the fortunes of innovative start-ups”.
Nevertheless, I personally believe that it is not that worrisome as it was presented, but what is undoubted that such companies must be better regulated in future.