A few West Coast tech giants have become a serious threat to our basic freedoms and
the democratic wellbeing of all of us
Firstly, we need to clarify, WHY we chose these companies to talk about. Of course, I’m referring to the IQ^2 debates motion. There were presented 5 companies: Google, Apple, Miscrosoft, Amazon, and Facebook. The so-called «tech-giants».
While commenting on the issue, Lana Fahruna pointed out, that Facebook and partially Google, have influenced the U.S. elections in a most harmful way, presenting fake news, and so on. So, we can conclude, that these two were chosen b/c of their negative impact in media.  Secondly, we have Amazon. But why Amazon? It’s just an online shop. Because its owner, Jeff Bezos became the wealthiest human in the world just recently, and that was actively discussed in the media. Something else? No. Thirdly, what about Apple and Microsoft? They provide operational systems and couple of technics, but nothing more. Because, firstly Miscrosoft (mostly because of its owner’s wealth, Bill Gates), and after it Apple (most of which success relies on the work of Steve Jobs) were the most discussed «tech-giants» in the media for years, mostly because of it’s CEO’s. Of course, all of this companies gather data from its users, but is it really an issue? Blatant arguing without any thoughts included succeeded only in pointing out that their knowledge can harm it’s users… The conclusion came shortly after - just break them up.
Let us continue on a crusade - why these companies were chosen? They are not the ones that have the most revenue even in tech-giants companies. IBM, HP, both have move revenue and worth than all of the listed companies, except for Apple. But in the latest report on Wikipedia about Samsung Conglomerate, which includes in itself the whole possible range of Samsung companies reported the revenue 305 billion, which doubled the revenue of Apple in this year. This year reports suggest that Apple was also overtaken by Berkshire (thanks to Mr. Trump) and Walmart. Needless to say that Facebook lays far back on #242’th place, which certainly does not make it one of the biggest.
Let us assume that the «big five» refers to a top companies which activity is visible for its user (not like IBMish processor), it attracts attention, its produces innovation, its growing spans between 1 to 5 years (counting Apple from SJ return), its widely discussed in media, it is spending more than 3 billion on ads every year, and it is magically influence the customers mind. But what means the last argument? It means it produces the best and the most comfort products in its own category, which overtakes the biggest market share. This does not counts in the Samsung group, which shares biggest part in mobile industry, but with lesser revenue. So basically, what we are talking about, mostly consists of good ad company, media outrage, and big players in its own field. Last question stands alone: why tech companies? The tech companies are successive mostly due innovations. Arising technology can easily overtake the oldest one.
Let us remember the 90’s fortune article about companies that will never fail. The great example is Kodak. American technology company on imaging. AThe only problem was that the Kodak management saw the digital photography as a disruptive technology that will kill their photo film business as their major profits were from the film business. Anyone who lived in 1970 to 1990 would have never imagined that this company will fail. When one of the employees came to HQ with new digital technology they denied to implement it. The only problem was that the Kodak management saw the digital photography as a disruptive technology that will kill their photo film business as their major profits were from the film business. The great example, where implementing the innovative technology killed the company which were bounded to stay alive, at least, in our minds. Kodak is the most colorful example, most of tech companies went bankrupt for being too clumsy.
So, we came to a conclusion that these companies were chosen because of their PR company, the media content, the fact that they are the biggest boys in the game, and the fact that their products can transform our perception so we could not imagine life without it (hey, just like Kodak). But what made them such, is an innovative technology. It is impossible to deny that Facebook, Google and Amazon have stymied innovation on a broad scale. Google’s engine overcoming yahoo’s. Apple’s design overcoming mid-price solutions to deliver the best product available, which neatness was because of its capabilities, not b/c of python skin on the phone (e.g. Vertu). Amazon overcoming Ebay. Microsoft building the era of personal computers. Each of the companies listed may be dominant, but they are all responding competitively to market challenges. As long as Amazon, Facebook, Google and Apple operate transparently and legally, I don't think we should worry.  The speed with which innovation occurs and expands, I can guarantee, that we will almost certainly see competitors explode from nowhere.   The life of a company on the S&P 500 or the Dow has monotonically shrunk over the past half century.  Almost no companies ever see their 100th birthday.
And why the question about breaking them up even arises? To make market more competitive? To allow smaller players in ? To prevent it from collecting and storing our data? Let us answer this questions further below…
Competitiveness? But how it is not competitive now? The technology market in Fortune500 is much more active that 5 years ago (source: look it up, classified). There are more that 1.5 million of tech startups created every year. But what if Google will buy all of the startups like now? Yes, this happens a lot in our time. The big boys digesting the innovative tech’s to stay on the field.  But this is not the whole story. The company can be bought if it wants ot. Of the company doesn’t want to be digested its just refuses to be sold, like Telegram co. It’s ICO (approximately) attracted more than 2 billion dollars, with selected investors who share the equal share of the vault. So yeah, it’s just a matter of ambition to buy or to be sold.
Allow small players in ? No one is preventing the from doing so. If it is hard to acquire your own market share than why do you even go to this market? Why dig the hole if you know from the start that you wont dig it big enough? Each newcomer company should have this in mind from the start. Let me please quote the Sergey Galitskiy, who recently sold his control shares in «MAGNIT» group:
«The purpose of the small players is to be highly selective, to concentrate on small areas. There are no small players who are good in general product and can compete with the big boys. If your product has good enough you will take a bigger share of pie, but if it’s not you are bound to be selective, not general»
Oh god why? It is written in license agreement that you allow the service to store your data it return for using the service. Just read the Terms, goddamn.
Let me comment on the NY Times article.
Quote: «the world’s five largest companies by market capitalization have all changed, save for one: Microsoft. Exxon Mobil, General Electric, Citigroup and Shell Oil are out and Apple, Alphabet (the parent company of Google), Amazon and Facebook»
This is a complete lie. These journalists can’t even count to 1 trillion. Saudi Aramco have been regarded as the most expensive company of all time, selling only 5% of its shares. Even paying 50% of the profits to the Saudian government it’s net worth is far more that 1 trillion, and maybe even 1.5 trillion dollars. This IS indeed a company that’s too big to fail. But eventually it will, because Saudian government is trying to get off the «oil-needle». Deputy Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has said it’s worth about $2 trillion. (the article in NYTimes was written after realizing that SA is actually the most expensive company in the world.
The fact that something is influencing the world which is not affiliated with politics is not the reason to break it up. I assume that the big part of this whole hysteria comes from a government sources. Imagine a power that grow on your territory which can influence the people’s future just like you wish you could. Of course every government is lacking power, just because it is infinitely hungry for it, in North Korea, in Russia, and even in Denmark (lol). Everybody wants to live better. Let us influence you so you will live better and love us more.
The last question that stands alone - could this even be done? Could we break down FB and Google? Homebook for households? Googlegoogle for people with glasses? How could this be done? We should not allow them to sell advertising on their own sites? Say micmicrosoft to publish windows for microfones? At least I see how we can break up the Amazon, but should the company be punished for doing the best it can in 5 years (compared to 5 years)?
Even if we will succeed in imagining how we would break them up, who would control that? Who will give permissions? Isn’t it the same as with ЮКОС and Роснефть? This company is too big, lets split it… Giving this kind of power to anyone, even  if this person is incorruptible is crazy, insane, and straight dangerous. Today’s «tech-monopolies» needs to be listed in quotes, because it’s not straight up monopolies. Its not like when an oil company buys every oilfield so no one can buy some for himself. Its an open world with an open market. If you are good enough you will succeed.
For real, how can you even break up Facebook…?
Sorry, but this motion is completely empty, at least for me…