Nowadays we face a blossom of American tech companies, such as Apple, Amazon, Facebook, Google, etc. This picture is quite different from what it was 10 years ago, when banks and manufacturers were on the top. The specialty of these new stars is that they sell not (or at least not only) goods, but information. These companies are thriving on network effect and other people’s data. Do they thus threat us? I think no.
First of all, let us consider how these tech giants may threaten democracy. Basically, democracy is an ability of every citizen to participate in his country’s governing. And how can companies or technologies prevent that? No way, as far as I can see. There is an opinion that social media can be used as an instrument of propaganda. That is true, but that is even truer for other types of media, such as television or newspapers.  In some countries the internet is the only way to safely discuss the wrongs of the regime. For example, opposition rallies in Russia are organized through the internet, especially social nets, because federal channels and wide-spread newspapers don’t even talk about the opposition, not speaking about supporting it.
Some also may say that information is distorted on the internet, thus preventing people from seeing things in true light and influencing their choices. However, as was mentioned above, other media are easier influenced, so they are more inclined to provide one-sided (if not just fake) news. Researches show that 44% of social media user can assess news from the both sides, while only 22% of other media users are able to do the same.
And the final thing I would like to say about tech giants’ influence on democracy is that channels of manipulation of crowd’s opinion always existed. Nevertheless, every citizen of a democratic country has his or her ability to vote anonymously and independently, regardless of all technological companies, whatever big they can be. The choice of a person still belongs to the person and not to a propagandist.
Secondly, let us look at how tech giants threaten basic freedoms. There are a lot of controversial talks about data collecting, using and selling. However, it is important to understand that once data is collected, it is not your data. It is just some data of a customer or a user. No one will learn your secrets, because no one will seek for it.
And why people are so unwilling to give some information about themselves? Usage of personal data is strictly covered by law, so that no crime is likely. What harm is there if Google know what you are searching for? Actually, context advertisements are rather boon than a curse, because it always better to look at what you interested in, than at some random pictures, even if we are talking about hated ads. Moreover, providing a piece of our data allows us to use certain services for free in exchange.
It can’t be neglected that there is certain problems with intellectual right violating. There are indeed a lot of works of culture on the internet that should not be there as long as its authors do not allow it. However, it is not wrong of technology itself, and not totally wrong of companies giving this technology to people. It is mostly people who break the rules and upload or spread prohibited content. However, tech companies try to react as fast as they can and usually succeed.
So what threat are we talking about? Basic freedom is a freedom to think whatever you want, go wherever you want and do whatever you want (as long as it is socially appropriate and lawful). And there is no way in which big technology corporations are threatening our freedom now. On the contrary, they enhance our freedom, providing us with space where we can speak and create freely, where we can seek for new knowledge, where we can explore different and controversial points of view and so on.