The Tech Giants: A Valuable Addition to Basic Freedoms and Democratic Wellbeing
When mentioning the West Coast Tech Giants, or the Big Five, it is vital to understand which companies who are part of the discussion. Facebook, Amazon, Google, Apple and Microsoft provide some of the most used services on the internet. These companies together hold a major share concerning its influence on consumers, advertisements for business, corporate tax and more. The recent debate discusses whether the influence of these companies has become too big and if the consequent reaction should be to break them up. However, the larger question is whether these companies pose a threat to democracy. Within this essay, I will argue against the following motion: a few West Coast tech giants have become a serious threat to our basic freedoms and the democratic wellbeing of all of us.
The West Coast Tech Giants, or short Tech Giants, are not a serious threat to our basic freedoms, but rather an addition to our freedoms. First of all, the Tech Giants have provided for several platforms, in which we can exercise freedoms, such as freedom of speech. Especially Facebook has been a strong advocate of the ability for people to voice their opinion and to enter into discussion with one another. In its various Facebook chats, groups and pages, it provides a digital space for consumers to enter into discussions. It is clear to see that people enjoy this aspect extensively, because it is used very often. Secondly, the Tech Giants allow for people to keep in touch with one another in terms of distance, allowing for the right of assembly. As Elizabeth Linda mentioned, Facebook offers a bright future for people who are experiencing similar difficulties. Due to the technological innovation of Apple, Facebook and Microsoft, people are now able to communicate with each other, effectively eliminating the issue of distance; it is all done via the internet. The Tech Giants provide for the freedom of assembly by providing this opportunity for them. Thirdly, the Tech Giants allow for religion to keep up with the changing world, providing for the exercising of freedom of religion. In previous years people had to resort to philosophical and religious thoughts close to home, but now they are able to express themselves religiously due to the availability of religious information. For example, someone from a small town in the United States of America might be drawn to Buddhism, rather than Christianity due to the information made available by Google. Moreover, that person might then be able to get in touch with people practicing this religion via Skype, a company owned by Microsoft, to discuss religion. It clearly shows an increase in freedom of religion. The Tech Giants provide for space and resources for people to exercise their basic freedoms.
The Tech Giants do not hurt the democratic wellbeing of citizens. First of all, the Tech Giants do not discriminate between political parties or ideologies. Even though the argument made by Rana Foroohar that social media influenced the rise of populism is a strong-sounding one, this is not the fault of social media; rather of faulty politics. Populism came to its peak due to dissatisfaction of citizens with the work their politicians were doing. The consequent prevalence of populist thought on social media can, therefore, be seen as a consequence of politics, and not of social media itself. Moreover, the Tech Giants do not have an ideological stance in the debates amongst citizens, but they are merely facilitators. It is an easy and short-sighted argument to blame the medium of the information, rather than the source. Secondly, the Tech Giants provide for the opportunities for people to be informed about politics. For example, many different political parties choose for their political program to be uploaded to their website in order for citizens to get acquainted with their ideas. These websites run on Apple and Microsoft computers, delivered by Amazon, facilitated by Google and are shared to Facebook. From this point of view, the Tech Giants do not harm democratic wellbeing, but help facilitate to spreading of information to be informed regarding democratic elections. Thirdly, the Tech Giants do not infringe on democratic values. The aforementioned firms do not play a role in the actual procedure of an election, such as the voting procedure or counting of the votes. Voting is up till today done by writing down or ticking the box of the party one would want to cast their vote towards. Even though the argument can be made that the run-up to the elections can be influenced via social media, this is not necessarily a problem. Social media has the possibility to provide the information that people want to read, but this should be done according to the principle of fairness. Any type of misuse of social media to favor fake news or click-bait should be countered appropriately, because the information should be spread fairly. Therefore, social media can be used as an important tool to inform people, but should be regulated if inappropriately used. The Tech Giants do not harm the democratic wellbeing of citizens, but even add to them if appropriately regulated.
A few large tech companies will allow for a higher amount of accountability and accessibility. First of all, many different influential technological companies will make accountability increasingly more difficult. Farhad Manjoo mentioned that if there are a few Tech Giants that listen to public pressure, it will be easier to keep them accountable. For example, if there are many different companies, which systematically violate rules of competition, spread fake news and allow for discrimination, then keeping them accountable will take more time and money than if there are issues with a few large companies. Moreover, a strong form of regulation towards the Tech Giants will prove to have a larger effect regarding the amount of people reached. If there were many different influential technological companies, then regulating a few of those companies would have a comparatively lesser effect. Secondly, the premise that large companies have bad intentions with our data without accountability is based on fear. It is clear that the Tech Giants gather a large amount of personal information, and in return people are allowed to use their services for free, as mentioned by Luke Johnson. Due to strong regulation by the EU or the US regarding privacy and sharing of private information, this fear is being countered by drafting legislation to limit the informational issues. After all, there is pressure on people to use services by the Tech Giants, but nobody is forcing people to use them. It should, therefore, be strongly regulated in order for people to keep enjoying the services, rather than limit them up due to fear. The Tech Giants benefit clearly from the data they gather, equally as the people benefit from their services. If properly regulated, both parties can benefit from this situation and these companies can be held accountable. Lastly, it has to be taken into account that people enjoy using the services offered by the Tech Giants. For example, Amazon has made ordering goods more comfortable, because it can be done from home. Due to the size of these Tech Giants, a large amount of the world population has access to their services and benefit consequentially. If there are a few Tech Giants, then they can be held accountable accordingly and people can benefit from them due to their accessibility.
In conclusion, a few West Coast Tech Giants have not become a serious threat to our basic freedoms and the democratic wellbeing of all of us, but they have helped to exercise our basic freedoms and democratic wellbeing. First of all, the Tech Giants provide for an addition to our basic freedoms. They allow for digital spaces to exercise the freedom of opinion and religion, whilst providing way for the freedom of assembly. Secondly, the Tech Giants increase the democratic wellbeing of citizens. Information provided on the internet by the use of technology of the Tech Giants has emphasized democratic awareness of citizens. Political information is increasingly available due to the services of these companies. Thirdly, the Tech Giants are easier to be kept accountable than many scattered ones. Regulation will be more effective due to a fewer amount companies and the effect of the regulation will be stronger. By allowing these Tech Giants to become large, there is also an increased availability of its services. Due to proper regulation, their services can be used all over the world for the benefit of its users. Tech Giants are not a threat and may even be considered as a valuable addition to our basic freedoms and democratic wellbeing, if properly regulated.