It’s time to break up the tech giants. Quite a provocative motion, isn’t it? There is always a mess in the society whether the so-called Big Five is a curse or a delight for the competition, economy, politics or even human well-being.
Followers of an idea that big tech companies should be broken up give lots of arguments for the motion. Firstly, existing of tech giants leads to a cognitive, economic and political crises. They have been involved in election scandal 2016, when Russia allegedly influenced on the voting for Donald Trump, or genocide in Myanmar, just because it was prepared via social networks Besides, the scheme of companies’ operating causes polarization of opinions. And, of course, fake new news is also the thing we should blame them. Secondly, giants are lying speaking their services are free. The actual fee is data of users, and the more users there are, the more Facebook or Amazon has to sell to advertisers (and it’s not the worst). Thirdly, tech giants create a great loss for the economy. They don’t pay enough taxes, they break copyright legislation, they buy up new players so there is just no other company to compete with. They own 80% of wealth and the distribution of that is harmed. The all rules of a free market drafted by Adam Smith are not fulfilled, and the great fine invoked is a prove.
Their opponents were as much as convincing. First of all, no one guarantees that the Big Five will never fail as in happened to Yahoo, for instance. Then there are examples of brand new tech startups which are quite successful – Uber, Netflix and so on. Have tech giants crushed or broken them? Obviously, no. Moreover, the activity of these companies as it is is legal. Speaking about society they argue that there is a great positive impact on the world through these companies in connecting civil leaders of just friends and it wasn’t possible if they weren’t giants. So the enormous scale of the Big Five is not a cause, but a consequence of their success.
I, for one, disagree that tech giants should be broken up. I do not challenge the opinion that they are monopolies, but I do challenge that every monopoly must be destroyed. When they say about news broadcasters gone bankrupt because of tech giants, they forget about the first rule of a competitive market: if you are not up to date, you lose. They have lost because they are not the most convenient source of information anymore. Do they pay taxes? Yes, they do. Do they pay less taxes than they should? File a statement to court and make them pay, otherwise you are proofless. Besides, if there are gaps in law, any entrepreneur desires to use them, so blaming only Google or Facebook is simply unfair. Tech giants as such do not undermine democracy, this is done by users who should be responsible therefor. Eventually, this very topic is in trend. It seems to me that a mountain is made out of a molehill.
In the same time I do believe that tech giants, given they are monopolies, should be somehow controlled. It is obvious that these companies can break not the economy itself, but the whole society. The most vulnerable question here is data obtained from the users. Everyone has the right to know who may get an access to his or her search requests, open data from the networks and restrict it. Then the practice of nearly free using of users’ content should be called off. The giants are rich enough to pay an adequate remuneration. The problem is that the existing antitrust legislation was formed mostly when the assets of monopolies were tangible: railroads, pipes, wires. As far as the assets of tech giants are mostly intangible, the special legislation should be enforced.
In conclusion, even Mark Zuckerberg has recognized recently that there are too many errors in using tools, and I agree with the point that the own remedies of companies are off. But most of human population in the world are users of at least one of them. Should we blame and break them of should we find a mutually acceptable decision? I vote for the second option.