There is no doubt that nowadays the world of information technologies is developing rapidly and sometimes it seems like it is becoming more clever than people who are inventing it. Sometimes it really looks like that the world of IT is spinning out of control and penetrating into all areas all our life that make us feel at least uncomfortable. But what part in this story do West Coast tech giants (Microsoft, Google, Facebook, Amazon, Apple etc.) play? Do they influence our basic freedoms and democracy in a real way?
In the debate ‘Break Up the Tech Giants’ I’ve heard two opposite points of view on the motion. Let’s consider them.
Speakers who are for the motion in a whole appeal to the idea that global tech companies know a lot about us, collect our data, know the way we think and influence our behavior and democracy discourse.
Speaker for the motion Rana Foroohar (Global Business Columnist and an Associate Editor at the Financial Times) supposes that the marketing business model of offering goods depending on our preferences has caused the political and social crises because became a weapon for manipulating by pushing extreme ideas and extreme political opinions. She gives an example of this situation: that social media and IT platforms, in her opinion, was involved in Russia manipulations of the US elections. Also she says that these companies are monopolists, and despite a lot of free programs we pay now with our data that dangerous.
Speaker for the motion Luke Johnson (Entrepreneur and former chairman of Channel 4) gives a key point that Google and Facebook are total monopolists in Great Britain and Europe and it they spend a lot of money on lobbying.
Speaker against the motion Pinar Akman (Competition law expert, and Professor of Law at the University of Leeds) considers that there is no real evidence to support the idea that IT services harms consumers and competitive processes. In her opinion, free services make our life easier and more enjoyable. She says that because of the extreme growth of innovation no company is too big to fail. She supposes that completion is everywhere and gives the example of Yahoo failure. Also she says that these companies spend a lot of money on research and development.
Speaker against the motion Elizabeth Linder (Founder and former head of Facebook’s Politics and Government division for the EMEA region) believes that global IT companies have a serious positive impact on the world and become a mirror to the real world what helps us to understand the world better, so networks just work on a maximum potential.
In my opinion, the idea that global IT companies have a bad influence on democracy and our basic freedoms is totally wrong, so I support speakers who are against the motion.
Firstly, the industry of information technologies is developing at the crazy speed. Supporting the idea of Pinar Akman, we can not even imagine where we will be in ten or twenty years. There are a lot technological startups all over the world and a lot of local markets seem to appear from nowhere. It can give us the answer that there is no real monopoly in the world of IT. In the article ‘Is It Time To Break Up Amazon, Apple, Facebook, or Google?’ of Harvard Business School Working Knowledge the idea of Guy Higgins was mentioned which and I am totally agree with it: we do not need to worry about global companies while the work legally, innovations are appearing fast and there are a lot of newcomers that can easily appear.
Secondly, it is not correct to combine risks of information technologies as a whole with risks that give giant companies. There are a lot of startups all over the world which collect our data and do the same as the Five. In the article ‘The Upside of Being Ruled by the Five Tech Giants’ by Farhard Manjoo it is mentioned that ‘Five’ does not feel safely in slow creation of innovations, so the competition is exists as it is.
Thirdly, applying to the article which was mentioned in a previous paragraph, huge IT companies invest a lot of money in R&D (research and development), so they carry out a  fantastic mission of making our world more clever, progressive, sustainable, easier and understandable.
Fourthly, supporting the ideas of Elizabeth Linder, global websites, services and apps make clear the local troubles of the world and broaden our understanding of global processes, situations and the ways that the world is rolling.
To sum up, the activities of tech giants are really discussible. But the breakthroughs that they make in innovations all over the world, the services that they supply, the ideas of global world with troubles that are visible and can be understood because of the platforms that IT gives, in my opinion, give the full right to be against the motion.