“Tech is messy” – Farhad Manjoo, the author of the article think. And I am pretty sure that not only he consider modern situation with the great technologies and platform. While there are people who are completely refuse the idea and necessity of the West Giants to exist, in my opinion, it is unavoidably process which should be supported. It means we should not break up the West Giants and I have several arguments to support my point of view.
First of all, I do reckon that no one can deny that we are living in the period of globalization and all political, economic and cultural spaces are interconnected and interdepended. That is why, all the humanity should cautiously consider the way it exists and to work out the solutions to the global changes together. What can help it? Global platforms can, where communities can address concrete issues and to emphasize people’s attention to it with some tools. For instance, BBC videos on Facebook about urgent issues on some territories, social problems which can not be solved without public interference, e.g. to make a donation to help Cape Town preventing from water disaster there or participate in UNICEF’s campaigns. I totally believe that introducing them to the personal “advertising” is not a crime. Moreover, if we talk about local communities, Facebook can connect relatives or friends who were separated. Here, the tech giant give an opportunity to keep in touch. What is wrong with that?
Moreover, the speakers who were against the motion persisted on catastrophe of the advertising which violently manipulates our existing preferences, even pushing people to vote the way someone upside want it to be voted. I barely can speak here from all the people, but as for me, I extremely doubt that it determine my political preferences, the advertising and platforms themselves. Maybe, it is connected with my political indifference. In addition, I do not think that people are now that naïve and only base their opinions about global political events only on news on these kinds of platforms. Yet it is not about creating fake news, but more about services these “giants” are tended to provide their consumers. On this idea I would like to concentrate more meticulously.
The key word here is “free”, free of charge. It means that people around the globe can have an access to the material and spiritual goods without extra expenditure. I have already mentioned the example of the Facebook where person can acquire care, financial support in distance from the people whom he barely knows but because of the people’s empathy that they feel reading or listening to his story. Then, we have an example of Amazon and Google where willingness of the people to self-developing can be at least partially satisfied. Our problem is that we ignore these benefits, because we used to take for granted. As former Senior Executive of Facebook, who was one the speaker, said we just have fashion to blame someone or something. The idea that has just crossed my mind is the permanent complaints of negligence to our basic freedoms in some sense for me, is also ridiculous. There is a possibility that following the main principles and events of some communities can also prevent from disseminating dangerous ideas to the masses, creating criminal bands, as it was mentioned in the New York Times article, about Islamic videos on YouTube.
The last point I would like to add to persuade you vote against the motion is core aspect of the debate – law regulation of the data which are collected by these tech giants. Yes, these global platforms collect personal date of the consumers, and according one of the speakers they share with advertising companies without any right, violent our freedoms. Nevertheless, do not you think that person’s needs even clearer can be seen with clearer for himself with a “third party”. Therefore, it is not about control, but more about posing direction for every single person who made his choice to participate in the modern technologically-developed society. Also, we should remember, let me quote Fahrad Manjoo, “better be ruled by a handful of responsive companies” than 100 small start-ups. These companies are much better prepared to address global issues of the humanity and in the same time they still are very competitive relatively each other and these small start-ups. There is still a risk these tech start-ups will evolve. These conditions of competitiveness stimulate them to work out the mechanisms of their platforms even more properly; therefore, do not provoke consumers to be angry with suspicious interference into their personal life. Moreover, these giants are still constrained with American laws and in this sense even if they are called monopolists, that they were blamed by one of the speakers, we should keep in mind that at least these companies do not create a mess.
I am completely sure that these West Giants can and already have done much contribution to improve the life of the humanity better, to develop global resistance to the most serious dangers, the push humanity not to discuss politics, but most of all, to “allow the whole community to feel its potential”. No one can deny, that situation should be regulated and controlled strictly and at the same time rationally. However, to break up all the achievements and possibilities these global platforms and networks gave to our society? It sounds incredible and even unfair to the humanity. That is why, I insist you to vote against the motion. Let me quote the idea I found relevant: “No breakups! Why punish a company for doing the best job they can and succeed?” At least, not now.