Nowadays there is a serious debate about the unlimited and unregulated growing of tech giants like Apple, Amazon, Google, Facebook and Microsoft. The most active opponents of these companies propose to break up them in order to save our privacy and to enforce the competitiveness in tech industry by eliminating the main monopolists. I am against the motion and I disagree with the opinions that big companies slow down the innovations and stole our data for nothing. As for me, the radical decisions do not solve the existing problems. I think that only subtle and well thought-out steps and regulations can minimize the risks from tech giants.
Speakers for the motion claim that big tech companies are monopolists and abuse their power in order to continue dominating in market. The obvious consequences of this situation are degrading the quality of the product, declining the speed of innovations. Also they use their influence in order to get rid of their competitors. The most common method is just buying them like Google acquired AdMob and DoubleClick, Facebook acquired Instagram and WhatsApp, etc. But these arguments are not so strong. We can see that the direct effects of monopolism do not happen nowadays. The quality of Google search engine is being improved day to day because it should compete with local search engine companies in each country. Facebook is continuously adding new features in order to be up-to-date with latest trends. Apple reinvents “new” iPhone each year in order to offer innovative products. The buying competitor startups  is an arguable issue. On the one hand tech giants absorb small startups and within the big and complicated system the pace of growing of new technology can radically decrease. On the other hand big companies can offer tremendous resources which can drastically improve the new product.
The another issue which was mentioned during the panel discussion was a huge influence of tech giants to a political behavior of people. Speakers for the motion accuse the social platforms because they become a powerful tool for manipulating and form the extreme political views by fake news and other instruments. These platforms allow to advertise each person based on his/her existing preferences and to use as one speaker said “filter bubbles” which reinforce the bias political views. In my opinion, the cause of problems is not tech companies which is just an open platform and the creators of provocative content are people. As one speaker against the motion said “technology is a mirror of real world” and it gives a voice for anyone. We should not blame the tool that harms the humanity, we should fight against the people which use this technology in a bad way.
To sum up, I think that tech giants give us great opportunities and we should not fear the challenges they put for us. We should improve ourselves in order to be ready for the future.