In the modern society there are a lot of prominent companies, which have a strong impact on our freedom and safety. They are undoubtedly successful and well-known, however the restrict our right to privacy. But what does this mean to have it? Unfortunately, each man has its own definition, for instance, I believe that the «right to privacy» means being able to hide the desired information. The information, which should be known only by me or people I trust. Deprivation of this is definitel threat to our basic freedoms and the democratic wellbeing to me.
It seems to me that it is worth to mention about the sensational story of the US government and the US internal intelligence deserves. It is important to note that even before the exposure of Snowden, there were publicly announced fears that applications such as WhatsApp, Telegram, to name but a few, share costumers’ information with each other and with the law enforcement officers. Snowden tells himself in detail about the inconceivable scale of this espionage in the interview. This invasion of privacy is realized thanks to the West Coast Customs coalition. Being skeptical of such a large-scale idea of ​​a general conspiracy, I conducted an experiment, namely 1000 generated messages on the Facebook social network about non-existent cats, resulted in all the contextual advertising in the browser consisted of various feeders, trays and other accessories for pets. What if not this is a proof that there is no longer a personal life?
Moreover, Facebook and YouTube are threats to our  society, they are similar to drugs causing Internet addition. Using these tendency to spend the major part of their time in the World Wide Web the government try to change the way of  the social thinking. Publishing incorrect information social networks help the government to provide citizens with false information. This manipulation on the people who do not have their own social position contradicts with the principle of “freedom of thought”.
In conclusion, I want to emphasize that the giants are monopolists in the world market, and therefore, they have the widest audience and do not need any additional advertising. Obviously, in some sense they are useful for us, but in addition to the benefits, as I have already mentioned, they are harmful to the society. In fact, all these conditions lead to restriction of democracy and contradict the principles of freedom.