It is a debatable question that Silicon Valley Companies might benefit society or instead bring the digital dignity and dominance on others. From my point of view it is certainly true that American tech giants – Google, Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Amazon – possess the great financial and technological power and my vote is FOR the motion.
The first and foremost argument is disrupting the competitive process. According to the speech of Rana Foroohar 80% of corporate wealth in America now lives in 10% of firms – controlling the vast majority of wealth. The so-called network effect allows companies to expand exponentially increasing their market share. By the same token, Jonathan Taplin affirms that in classic economic terms, all three are monopolies as companies in their sphere of influence have a share exceeding 70 percent correspondingly. However the statement reveal opposite viewpoints whereby author claims that tech giants are considered to be a natural monopolies as water and power industries. In adherence with this direction, Elisabeth Linder corroborates the statement by saying that tech giants only work when they are big so the network can’t be divided into too many parts, in that case it will be useless. Continuing to argue for the motion it is necessary to consider that the internet have never had the interoperability problems as real natural monopolies had. More than that Luke Johnson provides an evidence how big companies suffocate the competition and absorb new firms. Hence, there is no denying that the actions of high-tech firms in the market should be regulated.
Passing over the next issue, it is essential to tackle the democratic discourse which caused by Big 5. As Rana Foroohar has mentioned, the platform technology pushes extreme opinion views and has a strong influence on the people civil position. On the contrary, Farhad Manjoo insists that it is much better if community will admit the opinion given by responsive companies than to be under the political and legal pressure. Nevertheless, complying with the Mike Isaac’s and Daisuke Wakabayashi’s article the big companies allowed third parties to use social networks and online services to influence millions of Americans before the 2016 presidential election and the same situation is now happening in Russia. This fact leads to the necessity to forbade the reinforcing of our own existing opinion.
Moving on the next point, it is equally important to take into account that google and other giants perform as free riders. Talk of Luke Johnson has proved that Big 5 possess no respect for intellectual property. Consequently, they give a free access to books and music, decreasing the authors' interest to work in creative industry.
The last but not least point is the controlling the data. Despite of the Pinar Akman’s conviction that tech giants are supposed to be the biggest spenders on research and development providing the best work place for people, there is no doubt that they sell our data to the third-party advertisers. Rana Foroohar supports the argument saying that the services seems to be free, but actually it is not so. In fact we pay for services by our data – the main valuable commodity.
To conclude mentioned arguments, the prosperity of big 5 companies leads to cognitive and political crises which caused by building the hyper targeted business model. The state must introduce restrictive laws in order to prevent giants from capturing market space.