Generally speaking I’m against this motion. Though I agree that the activities of the tech giants have flaws, the benefits greatly outweigh them. Critics of the tech corporations tend to say that these companies are pure evil and do a lot of harm to the society and its order. But at the same time they rarely can name any specific actions or damage these corporations do. So their arguments often sound like «big tech companies are bad because they are big and bad». While people who defend tech giants are usually able to name a spectrum of specific benefits these companies give. For example, in the debate show it was mentioned that every year these companies provide 280 billion dollars worth of free services.
Some people who are for the motion say that digital corporations pay not enough taxes for their huge size. There is a theory that in the future corporations will have a lot more social functions and thus will become autonomous and eventually will replace governments. Well, honestly, I can’t see why it is a bad thing. It’s an evolutionary process where local feudal kingdoms were replaced by empires and empires were replaced by modern governments because they can fit better in modern conditions and demands of the people.
Another good thing about global digital corporations is that they create a common information space and this can solve a lot of problems in different countries that were even unknown before. People all over the world can express their opinions thanks to social networks and Youtube. We all use their free or cheap services in a varying degree. Ironically a speaker in the debate show who criticized these big companies was using Amazon service to sell his book. These companies bring innovation, though for some reason there was an opposite opinion in the debate show, because corporations buy a lot of startup projects. And again I don’t see this as something bad because when a bigger company finances or buys innovative startup project, that means this project will be finally implemented and inventor’s ideas will come to life.
In my opinion, the only good argument for the motion (against the tech giants) is that digital corporations collect massive amounts of personal data which they use later for marketing and advertising profit. This is a valid argument because it’s been proven a lot of times they do. But still, I think it is a lesser evil. Because it’s been also proven that governments all over the world do the same but with different purposes. So when a company collects my personal data to analyze it and then use it to sell me a phone or anything, it’s a much better situation than a government collecting personal data to put someone into jail for political reasons. But again, as I said, benefits outweigh this flaw about collecting personal information. That’s why I don’t agree that West Coast tech giants (or any others) pose a threat to the wellbeing of all of us.