It goes without saying that Amazon, Facebook, Google, Microsoft and Apple the tech giants from the West Coast of America have transformed our lives beyond recognition, but have they accrued a level of extraordinary financial and technological power that threatens us? Personally, I believe that we can consider this case like double-edged sword which cuts both ways, so to be sure are you for or against the motion you should look at it from the both sides.
Let’s start from the negative side. George Soros, famous American investor and business magnate, said that such companies like Google and Facebook were particularly nefarious because of their influence on how people think and behave without them even being aware of it. Definitely these corporates hold and control an enormous data about us which can be used to increase their dominance. They may use it for manipulating our feelings and desires for their own benefit and not for the good of society. As an example of a such terrible influence we can remember the integrity of elections in the USA in 2016 where some of these corporates and second tier tech company Twitter influenced the elections. Congress blames Russia to do that, however I think that companies by themselves were also interested in Trump’s victory due to the tax reform which is very profitable for them.
On the other hand, all these tech giants brought a lot of conveniences and opportunities to our life and that’s why in general they are so popular, and their services are so in demand. They are making our world more socialized, globalized, fair and even free.
Facebook and similar social network companies give you opportunity to chat with your friends and relatives regardless of your location and time. There you can find and connect practically with any person and it is also very great because sometimes we may lose the connection with somebody who is very important for us.
Google gives u opportunity to find anything you want in the huge amount information that internet has. Also, his platform like Youtube gives great opportunities to do what you want and to earn good money on it as well as to find what you are interested in and enjoy it.
Apple – best devices ever. (One love!)
Microsoft. Thanks to Gates we can study, write anything we want, make researches create presentations and do million other things which are very significant and useful for us.
Amazon if you are a buyer gives you opportunity to find any good you want and to get it without going outside and standing in the line. If you are a seller you can meet your buyer with convenience.
To sum up I am sure that all these companies brought more opportunities and conveniences to us than threats.