The motion for today is “A few West Coast tech giants have become a serious threat to our basic freedoms and the democratic wellbeing of all of us”.
We live in fast-developing technologies world, where our everyday life cannot be imagine without internet, cellphones, laptops, social networks and online shops. There are the five largest American tech companies: Apple, Amazon, Google, Facebook and Microsoft that control the world’s most important tech platforms and their power on our lives is obvious in our modern world. They spend billions of dollars in research and development and drive innovations further that make them the best. Although, there are people that the tech giants should be broken up because they get monopolist power and restrict competition by their expansion, these technologies can harm political issues and it will be better for world and consumers to constrain their power. I do not agree with this opinion and will argue against this motion for several reasons.
First of all, the Five are big because of their continuous development and spending great sums of money on research and best technologies. Otherwise, they will not be the first, other successful company will replace them. For example, Yahoo was leader in the search industry but it cannot stand innovative competition with young Google that outperform stable and successful market driver Yahoo. So, there is no unreplaceable, and if there will be some company that come instead of one of these five it will be because it give more innovative and quality products to its consumers. Moreover, the Five are obviously big but I can argue that there are still great number of startups in innovation industry as Pinar Akman provides the numbers of about 1,8 billions of startups are launched every year. And many of these previous startups become new giants as Netflix and Coursera.
Secondly, these companies give a great influence on our lives through their innovations. Breaking up these gians is similar to nuclear bang as it will stop all links, harm the economy, damage innovative pave in our modern world and almost get us decades back. No firm can immediately replace them and continue in the same way.
Summing up, this idea is impossible in our modern world and can be harmful for all people in the world.