Huge tech companies as Google, Apple, Amazon, Facebook and Microsoft have become the biggest companies on the planet. They rule in the market, they have enormous amounts of technologies, they practically rule our world. So I could not but agree with the motion: “A few West Coast tech giants have become a serious threat to our basic freedoms and the democratic wellbeing of all of us”. Considering the fact that I live in Russia I would add also the social net Vkontakte to this list.
Rana Foroohar and Luke Johnson, taking part in the debate “Break up the Tech Giants”, claim that the power of these companies lies not just in their size, but also in all spheres of our life: in most valuable nowadays asset, data, that they freely receive from us and use against us. Rana and Luke also mentioned that these companies have become uncontrollable and uncompetitive. On the other side, we could not deny the fact that was given by Pinar Akman and Elizabeth Linda: the simple reason tech giants are so huge is that we prefer their services to anyone else’s. Amazon, for example, have served the consumer by keeping prices low. These companies make our lives easier and more enjoyable. But how could it be compared to the fact that they control all of our data? I do not suggest that with so much power centralized in the hands of a few West Coast companies, the tech giants must be broken up, but for sure they must be controlled.
First, to confirm the genuineness of my opinion I would like to remind about the case of Edward Snowden who provide the terrifying evidence of how all of us are being monitored; our calls and messages are tapped and could be used against us (for instance, to blackmail us or to accuse in uncommitted crime). The platforms and social nets always have a warn of confidentiality, but where are the borders of it? And is it really respected? These companies do not only collect our data but also use it roughly in target marketing. First, you google new shoes to buy them, then you see the advertisements of “sales” and “best deals” in every corner of your monitor. Imagine how it influences our behavior. They can control even what we buy!
Second notion I am worried about is that because the tech giants control the world’s most important tech platforms, from smartphones to app stores to the map of our social relationships; their power is growing closer to that of governments than of mere corporations. As a consequence, politicians use the influence of tech giants in their own way. The tech giants are responsible for spreading populism and extreme opinions. Another fact is that internet plays a key role in the propagation of misinformation.  People have been worried about the internet’s capacity to foster echo chambers and conspiracy theories almost since it began; but in fact it is happening now. US-Russian relationship is a good example, indictments in manipulating the elections, what side is right and what is lying, who knows. There is no strong evidence and lots of disinformation.
Finally, I am convinced that these five companies could become as big as they want. They dominate the markets all over the world. They are undoubtedly monopolies who give little opportunity to the other digital markets, so they show real anti-competitive behavior. Tech giants also use public`s poor understanding of the markets to increase prices and to force us to buy the newest ones even if we do not want to. For example, Apple's new iOS systems are made in such way that older smartphones will struggle to support it, and battery becomes defective, too.
To sum up, I am sure that tech giants such as Google, Microsoft, Apple, Facebook have much more power that they should have. It is just immoral to collect and use our own data against us. We should not pretend anymore that unfettered monoliths don’t inflict damage on our privacy and democracy. There is no need to broke them up, but tech giants must be strictly regulated.