Tech Giants: Human Brain Programmers and New Law Makers
Since the arrival of today’s tech giants, the massive influx of personal information the massive influx of personal information has become available online. The tech giants make their money by displaying photos, personal posts, news stories and advertisements in front of us. It’s fair in general as a business model and it doesn’t look like it is threatening our basic freedom and democratic wellbeing, but they “improved” their business model and started to store, analyze and even sell our personal data. These tech giants are into the programming business but who are they really programming? Computers or humans? They collect data and measure how we react.
These tech giants have developed such algorithms with which they were able to influence the last American Presidential election; in Myanmar, where Facebook is the main source of news for many, it deepened the hatred of the Rohingya, victims of ethnic cleansing. This discredits the compromises and subtleties of liberal democracy. Having initially dismissed as “a pretty crazy idea” the notion that fake news on Facebook had influenced the American Presidential election of 2016, Mark Zuckerberg last year came clean, admitting that 3,000 Facebook advertisements were paid for with false identities that sent implicitly pro-Trump messages to Americans before and after the elections. Similar efforts were made, albeit on a smaller scale, to influence the outcome of the British referendum on European Union membership. Pinar Akman defending tech companies in the debate says and I quote “there is no real world evidence”; aren’t those words used by the defense lawyers to defend their client of perfect and untraceable wrongdoing. It has been pointed in the debate provided for reference that these tech giants also face competition and have no monopoly but if we analyze closely, every new start-up or even a well-established company who pose even a slightest threat to these tech giants have been acquired by them, for instance, Google bought AdMob and DoubleClick, Facebook bought Instagram and WhatsApp, Amazon bought, to name just a few, Audible, Twitch, Zappos and Alexa.
A few years ago, the private pictures of famous celebrities were leaked online because of security flaw in Apple, one of the tech giant, even though one can argue that what we upload on these tech giant platforms loses its status of “legally” private but these photos were leaked from the “legally” private account. This incident gained wide publicity by the name of “The Fappening”. After several court cases by the photo owners and copyright claims, till today, you can see them on google’s website (Google is another tech giant) without visiting any external website. Isn’t it the clear violation of the law to privacy?
These tech giants claim to promote freedom of speech but in reality, they influence people’s opinions by using and allowing usage of bots to showcase fake poll results and to share discriminating views.
Elizabeth Linder during debate implies that all Facebook wants to is build a global community but what kind of a global community Facebook wants to build by publicly surveying/asking users on their website about whether pedophiles’ request for children’s sexual pictures be allowed which by the way is illegal and have consequences same as for the rapists in most of the countries; another question asked users about who should decide the rules governing such sexually explicit pedophile requests to 14 year olds, what really is interesting are the options listed for this specific question; it includes Facebook should decide but there is no option for the law enforcement agency or even child welfare organization, so, do now Facebook, one of the tech giants consider itself above the law?