In our contemporary world there is no point to deny that the amount of data collected by different social nets reach extremely big number. Even more, in academic field the information is consider to be the most expensive resource that empowered you. The media corporations such as Google, Facebook, Amazon and etc. have uncontrolled digital power: they know the way we think, they can see our preferences in food and movies, understand our interests, and even more - most visited places and websites, closest friends, frequent communications. From our everyday transactions they can estimate the money we have, the bank we use and the products we buy. All these data gives them power to reach us as a target audience, to sell directly what they want and to influence our choice. Here end the privacy and our everyday life becomes public and all the activities shows off.
This idea supports by the first speaker from the debates - Rana Foroohar. She insists that social media involves in political processes by the example of Russian manipulation of  US elections (which personally I do not support, however, I use it to clarify the example). R. Foroohar provides information about tech giants as monopolies that uses their wealth to push opinions and views.
In contrast to her Pinar Akman claims that tech giants make our life better by competing not only with each other, but also with themselves to become better and provide more and more free services for people use. The point she tries to protect, is that tech companies are good not because they are big, they are big, because they are good.
However, this point of view argues the third speaker - Luke Johnson, who believes that usage of  I-net platforms leads to surrendering of your personal data - that is the cost of social net addiction. Moreover, he also supports the idea that tech corporates lobby their interests through the government by investing money to the country or NGO and etc. for their needs. And this idea I would support by the statement made by Jonathan Toplin from NY Times ‘Monopolies sit at the helm of the government’. And it is hard to disagree that monopolies and government in lots of countries set up a strong enclave that have an opportunity to make real political and economic decisions on the international level.
The fourth speaker that was actually against the motion uses arguments that could help me to support my vision of the problem. The key moment Elizabeth Linder tries to open up is that all the tech giants has potential for network effect and by working 10 years in a Facebook she refers to the idea that FB is a platform to change the world. She had helped the leaders of civil societies to be heard on Facebook. This is the one more proof that media platforms play big role in people’s life in decision making.
Personally I would rather be for the motion then against it. I believe that by using I-net platforms and nets we unconsciously follow the opinions constructed by them. Here I could be totally agree with Farhad Manjoo – the author of the article in NY Times – writing about the influence of Twitter. This is a powerful mode that could make us think and believe the certain way by putting us into filtered bubbles, where we lose our own way of thinking by showing essential content. For example, everybody remembers the situation about Russian entertainment platform ‘Spasibo, Eva’ that was a platform for young bloggers and multipliers to realize themselves among the public through the content on the topics they were asked to do, therefore it turns out that it was an ideological project sponsored by Russian government to arise V. V. Putin’s authority among young generation. The I-net channel was on the YouTube platform and shown political cartoons, provides political discussion in a humorous and sarcastic way about the government, however the true meaning of these content was to support personality cult.
I would also support my point of view by referring to the first speaker that claims the price we pay for free usage of I-net costs us our privacy. They know too much about us and can use this data to influence political processes. For example, Cambridge Analytica used its own database and voter information collected from Facebook and news publishers in its effort to help elect Donald Trump. Don’t you think it is unfair? I do.