Nowadays 5 high-tech companies – Apple, Google, Microsoft, Amazon and Facebook – take first 5 places in global rating by their capitalization. Some people insist that these companies have too much financial and technological power that threatens us all. Supporters of these views say that these huge companies stopped being just service providers long ago and now influence people’s behavior and encroach on their democratic rights without users even realizes what happens. Nevertheless, these views seem to be highly far-fetched and I find these statements slightly paranoid.
Firstly, I would like to argue with a motion saying that it is not just false but these high-tech companies conversely give us more opportunities to evince our democratic rights and express ourselves. For example, using Facebook or Google allow us to share our ideas, news and views with millions of people. These companies also give us an access to any information from absolutely different sources. These and others tech giants brought in our lives so much free useful services that doubtless made our lives better.
Opponents say: these high-tech companies collect our data and because they know so much about us they can influence our behavior and thoughts. But I would like to ask a question: why they blame only giants? This is much more about the modern technological opportunities than about the conspiracy of huge companies. The technological progress now allow any company to get information about its customers with the data collection via the mobile application, cameras in the shop or special motion sensors or much more other gadgets. The volumes of data which any company uses constantly increase. We can say that banks which own huge amounts of privacy data can also try to manipulate them. The world now has changes dramatically: technologies pervade all spheres of our lives and it has become much easier than ever to get access to data. So I do not think that it is fair to say that only high-tech giants have the opportunity to use the data maliciously, it much seems to be the problem of all companies.
I convinced that only the fact that these companies are so huge makes people fear its potential power and blame them in infringement of people’s rights.