I vote against the motion as well as the most audience.
1. First of all, I think that we can’t stop the progress anyway and we have to deal with what we have. Breaking anything and banning anything  is not the way out. As it was said in the servey of   “The only way to deal with the situaton - is to close Google or Facebook”, but it’s fascism, but not capitalism.  Also on the question from the hall audience about “chances for a gentle remedies to change Facebook and Google expancy” the expert from Financial Times answered that it’s impossible because “that folks play hard”. So she offers radical measures which i don’t agree with, because it’s always dangerous as revolution any abrupt movements can bring even more hurt.
2. All these giants try to reduce the possible damage they can bring to society, as former Facebook member said at 31:10 they even have “directors of compassion” and they do many researches for healthy and productive living for the humanity. Though, despite of good things Facebook and Google still bring bad influence with breaking copyright rules  - there is bad supervising of the content they let in the their webs so they become the providers of sex violation and terrorism, as claimed by the audience.
3. As an economist I would say that the point of the team FOR ™ about that Google and Facebook are monopolists is not quite right. The market with several leaders is called oligopoly and it still implies a sort of competition, though not that hugh as at capitalistic markets.
4. The point about the concentration of all the Ads market money  (80% of corporate wealth concentrated at 10% companies and 85% of digital ads revenue iis owned by Google) in one hand of Google and Facebook is true, but that’s the way it is - in all the times there are its own Rockefellers and Oil Companies. So in 21st century its Zuckerberg and IT companies.
5. Anyway I can’t say that people suffer that much from their data being collected for marketing surveys of the audience, which the FOR ™ was speaking about. The pleasure that Internet and digital technologies provide is a stronger force than an invisible hurt and possible manipulation of human’s minds. In all, if we recall a fascism - that was provided without any technologies. So I think if someone would come up with an idea to manipulate people’s choices and thought, that could be done in any way which is more spread at the precise moment: newspapers in 1910, radio - in 1930s, TV and ads - from 1950s and Digital ads and social nets in 2000s.
6. Regarding the point about filter bubbles and the role of independent media that  allegedly has mere control of the real events and provides critical point of view, I would say that it’s true for only few European countries, where newspapers are organised in a way of public fundings. Mostly newspapers are always meant to provide somebody's interests, political views, and the presence of the social nets - which do the same thing  nowadays  - makes no difference today.
So, in all, I would let the Google and Facebook live and wouldn’t close them.