Breaking up the giants such as Google, Amazon, Apple is kind of a fashionable theme nowadays and very complicated. There are a few tech corporations on a West Coast, which control every our step, they know what sort of products do you prefer, where do you leave, when you graduated from school, when got married and so on. Isn’t it strange? Doesn’t it make you suspicious?
Those, who are against the idea of disbanding the tech giants, give the following arguments:
These companies offer products for every taste and price and provide services which make our life easier and more enjoyable.
We might agree with it. But here is the question: “What’s the price?” We pay by our data “the most valuable commodity that we have”. It is also undeniable that largely due to these companies, in our consciousness the model of “permanent consumer” has rooted firmly. We live to consume. And in a situation, when you are surrounded by advertising, when you are forced to buy almost everything in a row to “become happier”, it is very difficult to stop and think do you need all this stuff. Really?
Tech giants are not monopolists.
One of the confirmations concerned Yahoo. That it failed due to the fact that they didn’t develop sufficiently, compared to others. Yes, of course, if we are talking about business, we should remember about one of the basic rules – the necessity of competitiveness. But we should remember that it’s an example from a major League and there is no place for quite young players. Even if any standing start-up appears on the market, leading companies, with high probability, will try to take it for themselves.
The main purpose of platforms such as Facebook is to give the opportunity to communicate to relatives and friends, who are far from each other, as well as people from different countries to find friends.
Initially, it was good intentions, of course, but gradually social networks received more and more access to our personal data, correspondence and so on. The location of the photos is automatically determined. There is information at what time and what device you have logged into your account the last time.
Just imagine that all information about have been collecting throughout your life. When someone knows so much about you, you become vulnerable. And now the question of trust and deep moral principles is raised, since everybody knows that, who owns the information – owns the world.