In the last two centuries one of the most important issues in economy functioning was the regulation of monopolies. One of the most striking examples that took place within the recent periods is the case of Standard Oil Company. Despite the fact that this problem has been solved nowadays we can see the similar situation on the IT market with platform-based tech giants Amazon, Apple, Facebook, or Google which are really close to the IT market monopolization. As statistics say over the past decade, Amazon, Apple, Facebook, and Google—or, as I will call them, “the Four”—have aggregated more economic value and influence than nearly any other commercial entity in history. Together, they have a market capitalization of $2.8 trillion (the GDP of France). So the motion is – “A few west coast tech giants have become a serious threat to our basic freedoms and the democratic wellbeing of all of us.” There is a situation where two opposite opinions take place – opinion for the motion and opinion against. I would like to present my argument for the motion as I find it closer to my vision.
Firstly, such giant players today can easily kill their smaller competitors. It is very interesting that there are no competitors on the market that can even come close to the profit and sales indexes of The Four companies, but there are a lot of those who are in hundred times smaller and just try to take their tiny share of market. Amazon has become such a dominant force that it’s now able to inflict pain on potential competitors before it enters the market - when it announced it would enter the dental-supply business, dental-supply companies’ stock fell 4 to 5 percent. What about Facebook? It is a social networks monopoly which owns the top five apps globally—Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, and Messenger. Facebook even has an internal database that tells it when a competitive app is gaining traction with its users, so that the social network can either acquire the firm (as it did with Instagram and WhatsApp) or kill it by mimicking its features (as it’s trying to do with Stories and Bonfire, which are aimed at Snapchat and Houseparty). This reality, when a new perspective IT startup can be easily copied by a giant, can lead to an unpleasant economic climate, where small new players with revolutionary ideas will just abstain from going to market and implementing their ideas. Therefore, with IT corporations’ massive sizes and unchecked power and without the influx of new ideas development of competitive markets will be throttled and entire industry and the world’s economy will be slowed down. That is monopolies always did and will do.
Secondly, “The Four” giants have become information resources monopolists – they know too much about us. Once you start thinking of Google's potential reach, it's easy to become paranoid. I am presently a happy user of Gmail, Google Calendar, Google Reader, Google Earth, Google Maps, Google Docs, Google Chat, Google Groups, Google Video, and Google Notebook (which I use to clip interesting things online). I also love Google Desktop, which has indexed the contents of my computer. What has Google made of all this information? If they wanted, they could know my friends, my family, my weakness for homemade YouTube soccer highlights, all websites I visit. They could know what car I drive, where I drive it to, and where I shop. They definitely know what blogs I read and how often I read them. They took a picture of the building where I live. The attention they've lavished on me would be flattering, if it weren't so vaguely menacing. With the help of machine learning and neural network they can analyze my personality and even predict my future activities. Looking at this situation you realize that you lose the right to anonymity and secrecy of their interests and preferences. With this data about everyone, as Rana Foroohar in her speech said, these corporations can easily manipulate people’s behavior in the period of elections, social questions, in defending government’s interests etc. Moreover, Luke Johnson gave us a theory where these giants can make social experiments on their users, who even don’t realize what is happening. In the most terrible scenarios, you can see the total control of the state and corporations over the population and its exploitation. All this comes very close to questions about the violation of human rights and personality.
Thirdly, the aggregation of power has resulted in firms that have so much political clout and resources that they can bring their effective tax rates well below what midsize companies pay, creating a regressive tax system. Apple, for example, uses an accounting trick to move its profits to domains such as Ireland, which results in lower taxes for the most profitable firm in the world. As of September 2017, the company was holding $250 billion overseas, a hoard that is barely taxed and should never have been abroad in the first place. That means a U. S. company is holding enough cash overseas to buy Disney and Netflix. This fact can tell about one concrete conclusion – these IT giants believe in their omnipotence and permissiveness to such an extent that they do not fear any measures on the part of the state. If you say it's okay and there's no monopoly, I have nothing more to say to you.
In conclusion I would like to say that the question of the omnipotence of IT corporations with each year becomes more and more important as their authority and power increase. They get more and more information about us, try to influence our behavior in Internet and have one of the most valuable resources to date-information. Therefore it’s quite paramount challenge for antitrust departments, which have to find efficient ways to control corporations’ activities in order to stimulate economic grown, market competition and the legality of taxation. In the end I would like to give recommendation to people - it is to reach an understanding of the influence of corporations and to be careful with their Internet activity; and to entrepreneurs - not to be afraid of going to the market and fight for their place in IT market.