In the last decade the consumer technology market was split among five companies each dominating in a particular niche: Google in search advertising, Facebook in social networks, Amazon in e – book market, Apple in mobile services and Amazon in computer software. There is no consensus on whether such big companies make positive impact on society by providing free services or whether it would be better for the market to be less oligopolistic. Some even think that the companies should be split in order not to violate monopoly regulations.
To start with, both of the opinions can be understood. On the one hand, those companies definitely do provide high – quality services (otherwise they simply will not be able to attract such a big number of consumers), they spend much on research and development and try to spread positive values to its consumers. However, on the other hand, there are some pretty serious arguments for the motion: lack of competition, manipulation of consumers (Google is accused for skewing search results for particular services), freeriding on intellectual property, promoting populism and imposing views (Brexit example). As for me, I am strongly against the motion and in the next part of this essay will try to further discuss some arguments in for the presence of big tech companies and also explain why I think that most of the arguments for the motion in my opinion are not valid.
I agree with Elizabeth Linder that dominant size of the companies is in fact an advantage. Because of it company can experience economies of scale and scope, thus have more money to spend on R&D, fundraising and promoting for charity events (Google Impact Challenge, Apple’s “Giving Tuesday”, etc.). Moreover, it allows to bring people together and share information– it is hard to imagine a social network or a search platform that up to a certain point would not growth exponentially, if it don’t than the chances are it is not working properly and will eventually drop out of the market.
Talking about the market itself, one of the strongest arguments for the motion is monopoly power, which can be easily rejected by remembering some of the recent startups which are now companies with capitalization counted in billions, such as Uber or Netflix. Furthermore, it is either not true that there is no threat to our “Big five”, for example there is now a very strong competition for Apple from Chinese companies (Huawei, Alibaba, etc.) which growth at a much higher pace and are ready to enter new markets. Example given by Pinar Akman about Yahoo that was not able to meet the needs of consumer and lost big mart of the market share proves the same point.
As for imposing of views and populism, I would say that the situation is against completely opposite. Social platforms has given people more freedom in sharing their opinion and also in searching for the opinion – and again if we reduce companies in size this attribute would disappear.
Summing up, I think that big market share is natural for companies in consumer technology sector. Let us divide them in parts and we will get rid of all the good things and be left with the same problems, such as freeriding and skewed results, which is truly a serious problem but does not come as a result of large market share. Instead we should focus on our needs and remember that in the market no one is irreplaceable.