Should we BREAK UP THE TECH GIANTS?
In time of high level of information technologies development, people are giving more and more attention to such tech American giants as Apple, Amazon, Google, Facebook and Microsoft. Being the biggest companies in the world, these companies are steadily increasing their economic, social and political power.
Some people consider tech giants to be the companies, which power the innovations forward and bring the society many extremely useful and crucial services for free. However, other people are scared by the level of accrued power by tech companies and believe, that they restrict people’s liberty and have an impact on the political situation in countries.
To my mind, big IT companies have real and serious impact on the world, but still they bring more benefits then harm to the society. Thanks to the IT tools available people can express their ideas and thoughts, create communities, get their message heard and make a positive difference in the world. People can speak with other people of all over the world and even come together to tackle similar problems. This idea is supported by Elizabeth Linder, former Facebook Senior Executive. She said that Facebook, for instance, even organized Tech Camp in many countries all over the world for the civil society leaders to train them get their message heard using Facebook functionality. I think, that it is the real evidence that big companies gift people the great opportunity to communicate with each other.
What is more, big companies are extremely wealthy because they provide people with tools people find useful and are in demand between people. The leading positions on the market of these companies show that they do things right. As Pinar Akman, EU competition law expert from University of Leeds said, there are examples of companies, with ended bad, as Yahoo for instance. That is why the society shouldn’t think that big tech companies can never go bankrupt. They also can be moved from top positions by others, if they make wrong business decisions.
To sum it up, huge tech giants have the serious impact on the world. However, they are the mirror of our developing world. These companies are the hugest investors in research and development and bring a lot of positive things to the society, which people should appreciate.