The essay on the topic “A few West Coast tech giants have become a serious threat to our basic freedoms and the democratic wellbeing of all of us”
The modern person cannot imagine the life without such things as internet, cell phones, computers and social media. But do we think in our everyday life that these things can do something wrong to us? Do we think that these helpful tech instruments can change our lives not in a good way?
The power of big companies, such as Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft and Facebook is growing really fast. Being just small start-ups in the end of 20th century they turned into great giants, with a really great power. As it was said in the video, these companies collect the data about all people who use their products and try to impose their new products using these data. We so easily share with our data not suspecting that it can be used to control us. They actually control people’s preferences while they think that it is their independent decisions. As a result people have an illusion of large choice but truly they eat what big companies feed them.
There are political and economic crises and the social media and the Internet are involved into it. It is so difficult to have your own opinion, because the influence is so large-scale. The rise of populism which we can face all over the world and which have polarized the world is also caused by the new technologies. The platforms propagandize their own opinion so we meet it in our everyday life using them in our own needs and subconsciously accept these points of view.
It is so difficult to regulate the news platforms. So it means that they can impose the wrong opinion. For example, as it was said in the video people start getting the news from Facebook and Google, where there is a lot of fake information.  The publish industry - a reliable resources of the news is dyeing, which means that we are going not to get the correct information about the important things happening in the world.
Tech giant are ruling the business world too. If you try to start a business that can concur with these companies, you risk collapse in today’s economic storm. Consumers prefer to buy stuff from big and famous companies which have proven reliable sellers because it is too risky to believe new inexperienced business. And this tendency will continue because these companies do not want to stop, they continue invest in big projects, because they have the resources and they do not want to lose the power, but increase it.  So we can say that they monopolized the business.1
We share with our own data relying on the status of the companies and thinking that it is in a save hands. But do we understand that the smallest breach of the company’s security systems could destroy our lives, so such data as address, telephone number, bank account or history of purchasing can be used by swindlers in their selfish ends.
The life before the technology revolution was not worse. If someone says that nowadays it is easier to communicate with people, find information, order the food I would answer, that in the past people appreciated the time they spent with their friends and beloved ones, they knew the price of knowledge and that their personal life is personal and no one can destroy it. Maybe it is almost impossible to quit the expansion of these giant companies and their influence on us, but every person should use the products of these companies more accurately and think before buying them.