Talking about global community, as Elizabeth Linder said, it has become fashionable to blame everything. One of the target groups is so called “Tech giants”, some authors call them “The frightful five”. This term include Google, Apple, Amazon, Netflix and Twitter. Some authors even consider an alternative to break these Monopolistic organizations dawn. Does it really worth it? Do “Tech giants” form such a serious threat to our basic freedoms and the democratic wellbeing, so that international community should unite to eliminate them? Personally I think that this idea is doomed to failure.
First of all, many people claim they are evil, destroy jobs, avoid taxes, lie to regulators, or provide a weapon for Russia. Luke Jonson said, they kill creativity. More rational arguments remind how in a democratic society the existence of large centers of private power is dangerous to the continuing vitality of a free people. Financial crisis of 2008 is a good example. Moreover, monopolism leads to the corruption of the regulator.
To argue with this point of view I want to point out a quote of Pinar Akman “They are not good because they are big, they are big because they are good”. Networks work for their best potential when they are big. The bigger they are, the more opportunities people, using their products, have. It is important to point out influence of big companies and their opportunities of control. They already police their networks for pornography, and quite well.
Network can be compared to “Natural monopoly”. The main thing is that Network has become an essential part of our modern life. It should be under responsible control and avoid the possibility when each wire is owned by a different phone company, and none of them worked with the others. Without network effects, the networks themselves were almost useless.
On the basis of the forgoing, the tech giant companies are useful tools for both their owners and people all over the world, using their products. They just need a modern way of control, so that the negative impact will be decreased. We should remember from the history, that in just 10 years, the world’s five largest companies by market capitalization have all changed. That is why I strongly believe that giant tech companies are not a serious threat, they are just a result of modern development.