It is always easier and pleasant to break up or forbid something you are afraid of. But is it really the right and efficient way to cope with your fears? Will this kind of methods of fighting with the subject that concerns you intrinsically help? Is that so easy?
My answer to all these questions is no. That is why I am strongly against the proposed motion.
During the past 15 years, popularity of tech companies, especially ones that touch on social part of human’s life, has been risen up significantly. Nowadays it is hard to imagine contemporary world without Google, Amazon, Netflix, Facebook and other giants of tech industry. And this fame is not undeserved. Owing to them many people all over the world have got the ability to communicate, share their opinions and ideas, and most importantly – they can do it unhindered. Internet and its arsenal, consisting of different tech companies helps to keep up real and healthy competition. It makes people more equal in their abilities. And this is all the undubious merit of tech giants.
But it also turned out that the popular internet companies are not so harmless. World has faced with various examples of manipulating with facts which has led to deploarable repercussions, such as rigged elections in US. Now humanity tries to find the way not to allow something like that never repeat again.
Some people propose simply to break down tech companies, because all the terrifying things happened on their “territory” and under guidance of their CEO’s.  To my mind, people, who come up with such radical solutions, are looking in wrong place. Their oversimplifying the real situation. I suppose, that although it is really unpleasant to admit, the real cause of what happened is in people. Lack of critical thinking, laziness to check facts, deficit of their education – this things are the real cause of what’s happened. And unless the vast amount of people has this qualities, nothing will change regardless of existing tech companies and social networks.
Of course things are not that easy. Surely people have to work on developing valid means to restrict tech companies influence, not to permit them to have absolute influence. But breaking them down is ineffective and barbaric measure, because even despite all the problems advantages still overweighing advantages.
To sum it up I should say, that despite the existing problems, breaking up tech companies is too severe solution to fight with the problems world has encountered. As one of the penalists, Elizabeth Linder, said during debates on IntelligenceSquared, “tech companies have put up a mirror to the world”, and I think its very important for all of us to make right conclusions out of the reflection we have seen there.