Nowadays there are more and more digital tech transnational companies in the world which have become the biggest companies by value. We used to share information about ourselves with them, so we want to believe that our information is in a safety. So is it really true? Such companies like Goggle, Facebook, Microsoft and Apple know about us a lot: what we do, what we like and with whom we communicate. So could they control our thoughts, influence on our wishes or maybe they can encourage us to do anything they want us to do?  And there are many confirmations of that and I am for the motion.
After watching the debates on the intelligence squared platform I knew the speaker’s opinion. The first speaker said that tech giants` business models include collecting data about customers and using it to sell to us products which we are more likely to be bought by us. So it means all information about our lives they collect and save and then use to their advantages. If one person monitors and save information about our lives, we can call him a spy. So tech giants are doing the same thing but in larger scale. The second part of the speaker’s speech covered the voting theme. The speaker said that there are huge amount of patterns about voting on google, facebook and ect website. And there are always public extreme political views there. It means that they can influence on users` political view  and as a results affect the voting results.
Reading the article «Is It Time To Break Up Amazon, Apple, Facebook, or Google?» by James Heskett I realized that if we even want to manage the problem with the tech giants and try to delete all information about us, we could not. The platform-based high-tech companies could not be broken up. The giants own the virtual real estate, and nobody don’t see how  it is possible to take that away from them.
In my opinion such corporates like Google, Facebook and ect are not just a search or network engines, as they once were. Now they have become a monopolist that destroys competition and encourage us do what we don’t want. They buy all startups and force to them follow giant`s principles and rules. So I also believe that the corporates can participate in politics on home countries`s behalves (for example  on USA`s). So it acknowledge a situation with Google, when its owner Schmidt said that the company was developing special algorithms that would  lower the materials of Russian media, in particular RT and Sputnik, in search results. It looks like a information blockade of Russian media, so as the results can formulate one-sized opinion about the political situations.
I think that democracy and freedom mean  people are not controlled and followed by commercial organizations, the facts show tech giants do it, so that’s why I am for the motion.