A few West Coast tech giants have become a serious threat to our basic freedoms and the
democratic wellbeing of all of us.
The motion for today’s debate is very vital and the problem has been discussed by many people from, some have even written books on the subject. After watching the debates on intelligence squared and reading the article we were provided with I’ve made up my opinion – I’m definitely against the motion.
The plan of my essay is going to be as follows:
Firstly I will discuss some points of the statement itself that made me quite concerned. Then I’ll move on to highlighting the opinions expressed in linked materials (debate, articles) and explain my attitude to them simultaneously. And finally sum up.
Let us first of all look at the statement and try to understand, what are these “basic freedoms” that are so maliciously undermined by the Giants. By the way these giants are Facebook, Google, Apple, Amazon and Microsoft. Basic freedoms of  a person are defined differently in different countries and societies. In 1941 the US president Franklin Roosevelt has formulated four basic freedoms (rights) of a human: freedom of expression, freedom of worship, freedom from want and freedom from fear. Let us take a Constitution of Russian Federation where in Chapter 2 we have “Rights and freedoms of human and citizen”, it contains about 30+ articles, it will be quite a hard task to debate on all of them, but still it is quite obvious that if these giants prejudiced humans’ rights so dramatically, they would not have existed and prospered. I do not really understand how can a tech giant undermine our freedom let us say of expression.  I’d rather say that Facebook for example supports this right as it gives an opportunity for people to speak, communicate, share ideas and information. The other three “freedoms”, as for me, don’t seem to be harmed by these very giants as well. Now the democratic wellbeing. The democracy nowadays is concerned with a freedom to vote and participate in political life of a country. I think that the giants do not directly influence the political life of society, and this is definitely not their market share that may cause lack of “democracy”.
Talking about the intelligence squared debate, firstly, I’d note that speakers “FOR” the motion (the subject was a bit different – Break up the tech giants) didn’t seem to be quite convincing, especially Luke Johnson who’s only word was “bad” without any concrete explanation. “Bad for society, bad for the creative community, bad for Britain, bad for jobs etc.” – Why? What is the basis and evidence for this? He was arguing that the Giants have created a dangerous monopoly on the market but this is a very arguable argument. The monopoly is about being a single company on the market and creating your own rules on this market alongside with manipulating the consumers. If the acquisitions made by the giants were that harmful, why would they even occur in this case. Seems like Facebook and Google are terrifying monsters (from Mr. Johnson’s point of view). I strongly support the panelists who were against the motion as for example Mrs. Leeds said that the monopoly is not quite the right definition of Giants’ market place and Elizabeth Linda being a former head of Facebook who has seen the real situation from the inside and said that Facebook creates great opportunities for people.