Break up the Giants
As we see from the video, the motion of this debate is «The tech giants have become a serious threat to our basic freedoms and must be broken up».
Let me introduce the topic first. Nowadays, giant tech companies like Google, Amazon, Facebook, Netflix have a strong influence on our everyday life. They have more power than some of the small countries! Of course, some people don’t support it because they think it’s dangerous to give the companies such a great power. At the same time, there are a lot of positive changes which these companies give to the world. So, our challenge is to find out, what is more important - the positive influence of the network effects or the negative consequences of their power.
In my opinion, the tech giants shouldn’t be broken up - they have slightly changed our lives and we can’t cancel it now.
First of all, as Elizabeth Linder said, the network effect is the biggest positive influence of the tech companies, especially of the social networks like Facebook. Facebook unites people, helps them to create a community and use this community for positive changes. You would like to start a book club? No problem, just write about it on your page, in some book communities and you would find people who support your idea. Wrote a new song? Spread it via social networks, get first listeners and fans and afterwards start to record your album. Created a new business? Write about it to find employees, customers and investors. I can add a lot of examples how the social networks could help to spread the ideas, which proves that it works for both art and business.
Secondly, the tech giants are the leaders of technological development. Google has a special department, called Google X, which creates innovations in the spheres like alternative energetics, virtual reality, space exploration, artificial intelligence, self-driving cars and so on. Giant companies have a lot of resources, allowing them to invest not only in the primary business but also in the development of the technologies which can change the world. Government’s now spend less money on the practical science than tech companies do. If we break them up, we would stop the progress.
Moreover, as Pina Akmar said, the tech giants are one of the most attractive employees in the world. They create new work spaces every year, helping people not only to earn money but to develop their professional and personal skills. For example, Google has an incredible office with the gym, sleeping beds, a lot of free space, tasty food, football and basketball grounds, corporate library. Google is also famous for its corporate culture which is highly appreciated by the open-minded people with a high tendency to freedom. If we break such company up, the old, outdated corporate standards will win. Pina said that some people are just afraid of the tech companies, but I don’t think, we should be afraid of the companies who care about their employees.
Regarding the opinions of the opposite sites, I can agree with the point that tech companies have to be more regulated. The data sharing is a sphere which needs the most rigorous regulation. Facebook and Google collect our data and use it to show us the advertisement. Moreover, they use special algorithms to understand what we like, what we want in the present moment. It is some kind of payment for the access to the free services. At the same time, I don’t think, they use this data to harm the customers. Rana is completely sure that Russia influenced the American elections, I would rather claim that Trump’s team worked better in the social networks. Facebook didn’t helped him to win. Facebook is a tool. Hilary Clinton could use the same tool but she didn’t do it. Whose fault is this? This is a rhetoric question.
Luke Johnson claimed that big tech companies pay less taxes. I would rather say that all of the companies try to pay less taxes. Sometimes because the government wants too much, sometimes because the companies want to maximise the profit and don’t care about the others. To solve this problem, we shouldn’t break up the tech companies, we should find out the mechanisms of collecting the taxes in the proper way and should discuss the taxes with the business companies  and with the citizens to find the decision which satisfies both sides.
The same thing goes for the monopolies. Facebook has a huge power and eats startups but it doesn’t destroy them, allowing to develop. Instagram added a lot of features and started to earn money after Facebook bought it. Google collects talented developers, unites them in a team and allows to work on the projects, they are interesting in - it is a great opportunity to work in the teams of the high-quality specialists, which is a strong boost for their professional development.
Finally, I would state, that tech companies change our everyday life, moving forward the technological development. If we break them up, it would be a step back for the whole society. Tech companies help to unite people and spread their ideas, stimulate science, create a lot of new work places. Of course, there are some negative sides of their power, but I think, the negative effect is overestimated. The governments should regulate the companies but be reasonable in their severity.