Nowadays more and more people are using various kinds of messengers and social media, but are they so free as it is proposed by their creators? Is not giving them our date as their «oil», as said Rana Foroohar in the debates,  threats our human rights for confidence of information and anonymity? On the other hand, is it possible to avoid its significance and just lose such great services that have been developed over the years?
Having watched and heard all of the arguments for and against these motion, it can be seen that all of the sides have their reasons. For example, speakers and writers who were for the motion suggest the ideas that in some cases the fixes of such tech monopolists may well raise such problems as the loss of the market competition and the restrictions of free markets. (https://hbswk.hbs.edu), taking into account the fact that most of American wealth lives in 10 percent of such big companies. Google has an 88 percent market share in search advertising, Facebook (and its subsidiaries Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger) owns 77 percent of mobile social traffic and Amazon has a 74 percent share in the e-book market. () In addition, Rana Foroohar believes that there always should be an equal access to data, transparency of pricing and shared moral framework. In my opinion, the real problem is that nowadays more and more young people are chatting and using West Coast tech giants and it is seen even now that sometimes there are some extreme opinions and political views. Specifically when it comes to propaganda of different political, commercial, lifestyle and many other spheres in our everyday surroundings.
From the other hand, I strongly believe that the arguments of the «against the motion» side have been far more convincing. First of all, maintaining of competition is an inevitable part even now, we should not be afraid of the progress so much. As it was said by Pinar Akman, they should not are so big that they don’t face competition for anyone anymore – not true (couldn’t keep up with the pace of innovations) For instance, Yahoo to deliver better innovations to consumers. No company is too big to fail even now there is a possibility that tomorrow there will be new tech giants which present a completely new and modern services. In addition, it is inevitable that even between these tech giants there is a completion. We don’t use only Google for buying products we also use eBay and Amazon.
Considering the speech in the debates by Nik Gowing, we fear about what the Facebook or any other creators of these services think, but it is a really big amount of «us», they physically have not got such time and opportunities to control all of us, to watch us and so on and so forth. Furthermore, according to Luke Johnson they are bad for everything: capitalism, society, for creative community, for Britain, bad for jobs, and people and so on and so forth. How can we support this idea, if there are so many arguments against it. Considering the fact, that thanks to social networks like Facebook and VK we can socialize more, create more and find more jobs. For example, even the shiest person in the world has a possibility to have a public voice via online media, different groups that are created inside these communities helps people to learn more and create amazing works (painting, music, poetry) and share it with the whole world, find lots of the job postings. Rana Foroohar says: “Advertising business model to collect data and reinforcing our own opinions”, but still they are our opinions. We all know about it, but how can we live now without having these services? What about such people and their democratic rights, those who does not mind if he is controlled or not and he wants to continue using these tech giants, but the major part of the country or even world has decided to «break them up» as it was said by Nik Gowing in the beginning of the debates? Moreover, should we blame only the tech giants or other online communities for the most of the political crises (USA elections, Brexit) or we will start finally change ourselves?
I would like to add also that the real winners of this revolution are not the tech companies but us, the users. Who could now imagine living without the services of Amazon, Apple, Google, Facebook and Microsoft? According to Pinar Akman, the simple reason these companies have become so huge is that we prefer their services to anyone else’s: «They are not good because they are big, they are big because they are good». For instance, Amazon provides all the bestsellers with a really low price, while Facebook or VK have all the functions that we need for a fulfillment of our communication needs. Moreover, some of them are the creators of new digital ideas, that cannot be avoided and impress the consumers. For example, a new store that is named Amazon Go, where people are able to buy anything they want without staying in a queue in order to pay for their groceries. The payment is invisible for customers, they all have their own cards, from which the money are extracted. I also agree with the ideas of Pinar Akman that digital tools and cheap market entry have made it easier than ever for rival startups to launch new online businesses, but yet they should be fairly regulated, we should champion the benefits they have brought to the wider world.
To summarize, there are more advantages of having teach giants on a market than disadvantages. However, in some cases their fixes may well raise other problems, like questions about human power over freedom of expression and about propaganda pf political and any other social issues via these services, as it was said by Rana Foroohar. Nevertheless, the idea of Pinar Akman is much more persuasive: they are good not because they are big, they are big because they are good. So, we can’t avoid its significance and the fact that they are not monopolists actually. The world changes, so do the market and the technologies. So, the major argument as I believe is that our democracy cannot be threatened, due to the lack of time of the creators and the desire to have a public voice, which is possible thanks to the tech giants.