Platform-based tech giants Amazon, Apple, Facebook, or Google are involved in all parts of our life. They are not competitive. They are the most powerful and prominent in the world. They deliver the best products to their consumers, they help people throughout their life and have gained a great recognition.
Pinar Akman, who is an Associate Member of the ESRC Centre for Competition Policy, claims big tech companies make our life easier. She admits that these companies are not monopoly and work with many other business companies. But there is also an opposite opinion that the competition between tech giants threat the world that can harm their consumers as well. “As long as Amazon, Facebook, Google and Apple operate transparently and legally, I don’t think we need to worry” says Pinar Akman.
Moreover, it seems very positive to Pinar Akman, that these companies provides about 208 billion free services in the EU and The USA.
Nevertheless, there are many negative arguments. For example, Luke Johnson, he is now Chairman of private equity house Risk Capital Partners LLP, and writes a weekly column on business for The Sunday Times, thinks that breaking up tech giants is nuclear option.	He headlines world most admired companies like Facebook, Amazon, Google are not good because they are big, destructive and hurmful.
He marks that, tech giants should be broken up because they are bad for the society, community and the whole world.
In the space of just ten years, Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon and Microsoft have become the biggest companies on the planet and a level of power that they have threatens us all. They control our data, damage democracy, and increase their dominance over other markets.
Above all, these companies control the world’s most important tech platforms, from smartphones to app stores to the map of our social relationships, their power is growing closer to that of governments than of mere
Facebook and all other companies manipulate people’s lives. They know all the data that people store in the internet, and they sell these data to the institutions which require a certain information.
From my prospective, huge companies like Facebook, Microsoft office, Amazon, Google create a large number of jobs what can decrease the unemployment rate in many countries.
On the other hand I would like to point out that the “social-media companies” influence how people think and behave without being of it.  Furthermore tech giant companies can have access to the state data or top secret information revealing secrets that can be utilized against the government, what may lead to adverse consequences. Another key thing to remember is that tech giant companies like Facebook, Google damage functioning of democracy, spreading populism as it occurred in the USA-victory of Trump at the election, exactly Facebook was accused on the integration of the elections in the USA.  In many European countries populism has been gaining recognition and similarly experts insist that social-media companies has done it.
I am also critical of social-media companies. I tent to believe tech these companies affects on people’s mind, manipulating their attention and directing them towards their commercial purposes. Tech giant companies deliberately engineer addiction to the services they provide. In my opinion it can be harmful not only for adults but also teenagers. People become depressive, aggressive, somehow addicted to the social –media. Nowadays people don’t feel real life. The influence of the tech giants is so heavy, that in Finland network addiction equate with mental illness, in this way a guy who is obliged to go to army can released from military service. Similarly such laws practices in China and Japan. Speaking of Japan, there is a high rate of suicide commitment, that is the impact of social-media addiction, reaffirm many scientists.
The owners of tech giants consider themselves the master of the universe, representing their dominant position. We should take actions against incursion into people’s life and states’ secrets, limiting their access, controlling them.
All things considered, it seems reasonable to assume that, tech giant companies damage our society, our culture of communication. They have become a terrible threat to our freedom. Tech giants cause a real damage to the democratic well-being and peace in the whole world.