How will tech giants’ ever-expanding control affect our wellbeing and basic freedoms? In the past twenty years the explosion of internet tools has thoroughly altered almost every aspect of our life; how we buy goods, discuss politics, form relations and handle our work. At the core of this transformation there is a small number of corporations that grasped the early opportunities of a widely accessible internet and turned them into huge generators of wealth and insight. Google, Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Amazon between them control and store extraordinary amounts of data concerning human activity and turn it into goods and services that have driven spectacular commercial growth. This essay is an attempt to address the question whether such companies must be broken up or not.
Supporters of the idea of breaking up the technology giants claim these companies pose a serious threat to democracy by creating so-called ‘filter bubbles’. According to global economic analyst Rana Foroohar, those include particular platforms and principles of operation of the platforms that are aimed at reinforcing existing opinions. These bubbles employ a number of tools such as spreading fake news or manipulating public opinion. Eventually, it may lead to the rise of far populist ideas and movements. However, this concern is probably baseless. Farhad Manjoo in his article ‘The Upside of Being Ruled by the Five Tech Giants’ states that as long as new global social media, like Twitter or Google, have been playing a vital role in modern communication, they are able to control propagation and misinformation themselves before the government or any other regulating body reacts. That actually delegates part of the power to tech giants in order to combat a dangerous spread of fake news around the globe. Thus, the existence of these corporations means a better focus for addressing the problem of misinformation.
Another point of tech giant critics is that the tech corporations undermine moral standards and even break basic human rights of their users. British entrepreneur Luke Johnson sticks to the opinion that, along with economic controversy of the issue, tech giants support system that endorses deteriorating the quality of information. Users who freely give up their personal data, which is approximately every single one of the users, appear to be the victims of dishonest social and psychological experiments conducted by technology corporations. Thereby, exploiting personal data of millions and even billions of users lead to, what Mr. Johnson calls, ‘enslaving’ the public and infringing their rights. But this worry of Five Tech Giant opponents is also unfounded. Giving away a little of private information is a basic and benign rule for entering most of the Internet platforms. On the contrary, it does not anyhow infringe rights of the users. However, the tech companies like Facebook provide a great platform for people to communicate at the lowest costs possible. A former Facebook Senior Executive Elizabeth Linda claims connecting is the most important goal ever seen by the Facebook company. The purpose of the platform is to connect people around the globe and make a positive impact on their lives. Thus, sharing news, communication and newly established connections between nations and cultures are the benefits that cannot compare with a little piece of personal data that is wrongly said to harm privacy.
Nevertheless, there are people who argue that in monetary terms such companies are monopolies and we the society should eliminate them. They claim these types of monopolies need to be regulated, or if we allow the existing situation to continue, those autonomous monoliths will eventually cause damage on our privacy and democracy as well as on economies in many states around the globe. However, I cannot agree with them. I share the ideas of economists who argue the following positive arguments for a monopoly to exist. Firstly, monopoly earnings can be used in research and development efforts and thus enforce technological improvement and economic growth. These R and D expenses may be commenced either to maintain a monopoly position or to acquire a new one. Secondly, monopolies usually do not need to spend much on advertising and sales promotion. This compares monopolies to oligopolies or monopolistic competition. Finally, patents play a significant role in innovation. Innovations spread to other producers of that or other goods and it leads to cost reductions while pure competition may exert more pressure for cost reductions.
To sum up, the opponents’ arguments are not that valid, and the status quo position have more advantages then the so-called “break-up” position do, and, in my opinion, the very tech giants do not undermine democracy and the economy at all. In conclusion, I would like to say that how many people so many opinions, but one can only hope that one day the problem concerning tech giants’ fast explosion and its influence on the society will be solved.