In recent years, huge tech giants, such as Google and Apple, have an enormous influence on people, giving best services to their customers and growing its economic, political and social power as well. Many people believe that it would be better, if “frightful five” would be splitted, because they can create a serious threat to our freedom, while others may think that tech giants should continue their activity and extend the horizons as well. I totally disagree with an idea of breaking up the largest companies and I will give several reasons for that.
The first point I would like to make is that companies with large market capitalization create a big amount of job places. Everybody can look for the dream job exactly in those companies, because they suggest people lots of working position in different fields. In addition, people can be highly priced of having experience in working in big companies.
Another reason to be against the motion is that it is very unfair to be broken up because of the big achievements. They know better how to implement the best technologies to our life. Their products and services make our routine deals automated. Therefore, people can do high-priority deals and not to worry about the routine.
Moreover, there are no competitors in the market for providing innovational technologies and best solutions to their customers. Companies like Yahoo and Nokia could not keep up with current innovations and failed. For example, Nokia could not face with an era of touch smartphones, because they continue to produce old-fashioned smartphones with an idea of using buttons to manage an operation system, whereas Apple and Samsung provided smartphones with giant sensor screen. Later, this idea became an innovation on tech market. So Apple and Samsung leaded the market, as Nokia had to capitulate.
To sum up, the West coast giants like Google and Amazon should not interrupt their existence, because of people’s fear to become a threat. They create many opportunities to feel better and make our life easier in most components.