Nowadays, such huge companies as the Google, Apple, Facebook and Microsoft become more and more powerful. Their influence on global economics and politics could not be underestimated. While some people say, that the tech giants make our lives better with new beneficial services and improve our quality of life, others say, that it is time to break down these companies to safe the world. The question is, should West Coast tech giants be considered as a serious threat to our basic freedoms and democratic wellbeing? In my opinion, the answer is yes. I am totally for the motion for a number of reasons.
First of all, as Rana Foroohar mentioned, social media is enormously useful tool for marketing. Indeed, all services and gadgets, that provided by these companies tirelessly collects data about us to investigate our preferences for making personal advertising and personal offers. Moreover, as Luke Johnson said, “thanks to the rise of the smartphone they’ve been running massive social and psychological experiments on their users without the users even realizing quite what’s happening”. This phenomenon destroys our basic freedom and undermine the privacy.
Secondly, social networks could be used for manipulation and this topic has been largely discussed. The USA politicians said that Russia was in charge of American elections result. Whether people believe in this case or not, they should recognize that huge tech companies may have a significant impact on people’ opinion and as a result on politics. Thanks to Facebook in these latter days we have incredibly polarized politics and extreme opinions and extreme political views have been pushed using the social media as Rana Foroohar said.
Another point to add is that Facebook and others are used for disseminating gossip and fake news. Therefore, today people force with massive attacks of huge amount of junk information provided by such services. While newspapers are concerned about their reputation, the social media have no responsibility at all for the information and news they provide.
Finally, the most warning impact of West Coast tech giants on society related to their economic power. To be more specific, these companies are monopolists and provide anti-competitive behavior. Some people say, that instead of contributing to small innovation startups they just buy other perspective companies to enhance their market power. For instance, Google bought AdMob and DoubleClick, Facebook bought Instagram and WhatsApp, Amazon bought, to name just a few, Audible, Twitch, Zappos and Alexa. Google has a market share of 85% in the internet search in Grean Britain and about three quarters share of all online advertising market. As a result,
Nevertheless, some regulations should be undertaken. As The New York Times wrote that “Monopoly is made by acquisition” and suggested a few regulations to deal with this issue, for example to prohibit or to limit acquisition for this companies or “remove the “safe harbor” clause in the 1998 Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which allows companies like Facebook and Google’s YouTube to free ride on the content produced by others”.
In my believe, despite the tech giants become a threat, society could not totally refuse using them. The main point is that people should constrain unlimited growth of these companies and their political and economic power.