In past couple of decades our world and society has faced dramatic changes. Could anyone have ever imagined companies, which sell data, to have market capitalization bigger than companies, which sell real goods?
Exxon Mobile, General Electric, Citigroup, Bank of America do not appear at the top of Wall Street charts anymore. They were replaced by Google, Apple, Amazon and Facebook.  All of a sudden a situation, when a company, possessing only a chair and notebook according to its balance sheet, can be worth more than giant company, possessing thousands of workers, huge numbers of assets and 100 years+ history, became real. And not only real, but… Usual. If we take a look at Google, Microsoft, Apple, Amazon, Facebook, they started as a small company, most likely they were operating in rented garage with only couple of workers inside. We can glance also at Instagram, Airbnb, Twitter and millions of other more or less successful IT start-ups. And what they are united by, is working only with information. Information and everything connected with it became their “philosopher’s stone”, that allowed them to become rich and powerful. So powerful, that nowadays some people are afraid of them, of their influence and future, which can be hardly imagined without such companies, especially without Google, Amazon, Facebook, Microsoft and Apple (“Five Giants”).
But do they really possess such power, that allows them to be compared with Standard Oil Corporation, or it’s just thought of mad people? Google is said to share more than 85% of internet search market worldwide (excluding China), Facebook and Google together share approximately 20% of world advertisement market. Adding there Amazon with its world-famous marketplace and 50% share of e-commerce market, Microsoft and Apple with their achievements in both software and hardware spheres may let some people to come up with thoughts that IT market is badly monopolized. But it is not true, and it’s easy to agree with Pina Rockmond, one of the speakers, who states that such IT companies always need to be at the top of “technology wave” not to lose their market share and not to be overplayed by constantly appearing technological companies. One of the most famous monopolies that ever existed – Standard Oil Corporation – had never faced 1.8 million of newly created companies per year, which may have threatened to its power. Talking about monopolies, people always consider them as something bad. It’s completely true, because position of the monopolist allows such company to raise prices, to neglect its customers’ and suppliers’ interests and so on and so forth. But if we are to consider “Five Giants” as monopolists, they are the most ridiculous monopolists then. Because our world has never seen monopolists, which would reduce prices and offer huge amount of free services, which would be one of the biggest investors in R&D. Because if they don’t, they will be beaten up by new companies.
However, as we assume “Five Giants” as not monopolists, there still is another threat: almost every single bit of data that ever gets to internet will go through mentioned companies’ servers. And not only just go, but more likely be stored and analyzed instantly. And it’s barely good, according to Rana Faroohar. She claims that “free services” provided by the companies, are not free at all. They are paid by our privet date, which can easily leak or be sold to advertisement companies’ “dirty” hands.  It is simultaneously truth and falsehood. Data, provided to ad companies, is impersonal and encrypted, therefore can hardly be used against personality. And such data is never being sold. These relationships between IT companies and ad companies can be compared to a marketplace that allows people who are interested in anything to find exactly what they need. Costumers are not pushed to buy anything, they are just notified that some things exist and may be interesting to them. Final decision is left to the people. And ad companies can focus on customers who they are seeking for. But never personalized.
And the least but not the last thing, that “Five Giants” are blamed for, is spreading fake information. Here Elizabeth Linda proclaimed referable idea that such companies only create a platform to share opinions, but never to promote one of them. It’s like a weapon, a semi-automatic rifle; these platforms can be used both for good and bad things, for protecting and attacking, and the way of using them is defined by users.
And I do stick to the opinion that “Five Giants” created the mirror of our world thanks to Big Data, and we depicted really frighten ourselves, but it does not make such companies the “Axis of evil”, it just gifts us a chance to change and to move towards bright future. And whenever anyone suggests to leave, to tear up the companies, we will ask him what their Facebook link is.