I vote against the motion and that is why I firstly would like to argue with speakers for the motion “break up the tech giants”. 
Both speakers stated that these companies are monopolists and consequently consumers have no other options rather than use their products even if they think that such usage will restrict their freedom, steal personal data and impose products through advertisement. As an example of such giants experts introduced such companies as Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google. But I can imagine some big competitors for every company from this list: for Facebook local country players like Vk in Russia, for Amazon – Ebay, Aliexpress, for Netflix – Amediateka, even YouTube. So there are a lot of options that people can choose. The market is not monopolistic it is not even oligopoly; it is competitive market with a lot of players with low entry barriers and products of different characteristics. 
The second popular argument for motion was “Tech giants get your personal data from “free” products and then use it to increase its revenues”. In this statement speakers focused especially on revenue from advertisement. But why usage of data in advertisement is thought like a threat to our freedom? Is it really affects us in a bad way? I think no. Collected data is used to offer us more relevant advertisement but we still have right to choose products by ourselves. And instead of it we get free products that can make our quality of life better. Collecting of anonymous data can be used in good purposes. The best example is medical app that was offered for free and was able to really help patients, to create an effective way of treatment. Instead of it they wanted to aggregate information about patients in order to improve their app, develop their technology. So even such sensitive information like medical data was used in good way that doesn’t harm our rights or wellbeing.
The last argument that I want to disagree is that “big tech companies violate a copyright”. I have absolutely opposite opinion. Yes, YouTube and Google provide pirate copies but it is not their fault. It is a problem of existing regulations and existing technologies of anti-piracy campaign. All giants try to decrease percentage of illegal materials, to protect intellectual property, to monetize usage of copyright content. For instance, before Netflix was launched people used to watch videos on free services, nobody wanted to pay for such content. And Netflix, Apple, Spotify changed the paradigm of content consumption, nowadays people make its own choice to pay for good content, helpful app. And this change drives film and music industries to create better content.
From my point of view all speakers that support the opinion that tech giant have become a serious threat to our basic freedoms in fact are dissatisfied with the quality of legislation in tech industry but not with tech giants. They think that companies can sell their data because there is no sufficient legal base that will guarantee the protection especially in developing countries. Regulatory environment needs more time to adapt to new digital version of the world. And we can see that first attempts to cope with personal data protection are already made.
Do tech companies want to restrict our rights? I think no because the aim of creating of every existing tech company was to give people more possibilities, to make their lives easier but  not to influence political issues and get all the money of the world.  I can conclude that the fears mentioned in the motion will eventually disappear with the development of regulations in this industry.