The main question in the society discourse in the West concerning the huge tech companies, in particular Google, Microsoft, Amazon, Facebook and Apple, is whether the public should break up these companies in order to stop the monopolistic behaviour of such businesses or not. The list of the main arguments for the motion include monopolization of the market, access to private data of the people, tax evasion, labour market issues. Although there is much power in these points, I would like to prove that it is not a good idea to suppress this type of a business.
First of all, the huge tech companies have not appeared from nowhere and they are not the sort of natural monopoly – these enterprises have achieved their success in the new sphere, full of innovations, huge investments in research and development (moreover with undefined return) and, of course, tough competition. As Pinar Akman logically underlined, they are not good because they are big – they are big because they are good. That is the core idea indeed: it is quite fair that the companies that have invented things that make our everyday life easier gather the harvest right now. In addition, it is necessary to mention about big failures in tech industry – Akman have named Yahoo, AOL as good examples of high tech losers – by the same token I remember Nokia, one of the leaders in mobile phones industry, that once failed and quickly lost the market share. Therefore, it is clear the high tech is not the way for easy money.
Secondly, people are very scared of the fact that their personal data passes through these tech companies, but I have some points against that argument. In fact, if you communicate with someone else using digital means the data should go through some mediator. To be simple there could be three states of the world: data passes through thousands of the small services, through the central government-regulated body or through Facebook, Google etc, like today. The first way does have a huge advantage in the form of a competition, however single small company lack financial resources to provide connectivity among customers and with competing platforms (imagine the world where there is a thousand of social networks), decent level of support etc. The situation where government controls the traffic is definitely more awful, even if the government could have much more resources than all small companies combined, it is not a great idea if the taxpayers’ money go to the creating of social network and raises many questions – “Do many people trust the government?”, “Do the government has enough expertise and propensity to innovations?” and finally “Why on earth the government should get into it?” Presumably the answers will not be in favour of the government. On the contrary, the last way has its answers to these issues and proves it in deed.
Thirdly, many governments and politicians (not only them – Luke Johnson from debates comes from the business circles) argue that huge high-tech companies evade taxes. To respond this argument is quite easy and now I will enumerate some reasons against it. To begin with, the bureaucrats would rather tell how the taxpayers’ money is spent. Moreover, the tech industry needs constant investments in development this leads to huge losses in the beginning of the life cycle of a business and those losses may be deducted from future profits to reduce tax burden. The last reason to support tech companies in terms of taxes is the nature of the industry – constant motion forward – it really provokes economic growth which leads to big taxes collected in the long-run.
The final argument, which was also mentioned by Luke Johnson, concerns the lost or “taken” jobs. Life did not start when Google was founded – it had been dynamic ever before. For example, assembly lines and machines replaced many workers – do we have 50% unemployment? Jonathan Taplin in opinion column in the New York Times argues that Google and Facebook win in the competition with newspapers and television, but is not the game fair? And even more, does not it make the newspapers fuss? The media sources which try to incorporate themselves in the new architecture do their best to innovate and, in the end, the consumer wins – that is the main benefit for the society.
To sum up, not all the arguments for the motion are bad or illogic, however modern situation seems fair and reliable to me. I personally and people whom I know benefit from the products which are provided by the huge high-tech companies. It makes our life easier, more comfortable and faster. Many new start-ups appear, as was mentioned on Intelligence Squared debates, and they try to change the world by bringing the most innovative, helpful and exclusive products to the market. Certainly, this is not a bad scenario – the case when the society enjoy the benefits of innovations. In particular, the social networks give the ability to communicate with people from all over the world, search engines to get better information and reduce its asymmetry, smartphones to do it faster and in a more convenient way every year – the future looks brighter in anticipation of further innovations.