Being an International Relations student, I would start my train of thought with a reference to the ‘West Coast’ part of the motion. According to an influential paradigm within the international relations studies – realism – states exist in a condition of anarchy, i.e. they are masters of everything (depending on the amount of power a state has) and moreover – they constantly compete with each other.
Keeping this in mind, we may now think of  those giant tech companies as an element of a state power, whether it is a ‘national champion’ brought up by the state itself, or a private enterprise. Who then would break it up? On the contrary, these monopolists would be very effective on a global scale – just like those West Coast, or American, companies that represent and advance, consciously or not, ideas, values and mindsets produced in their country of origin.
Thus, it comes as no surprise that other countries, e.g. China, India, and Russia, strive to nurture their own tech giants, prospectively able to compete with those of ‘the West’. There certainly is competition if we search for it on this global, strategic scale. And if we add to this the argument made by Pinar Akman – that the industry itself is very competitive to the extent that, and I would quote this rather Stalin-like expression, “no one is irreplaceable” – then it is clear that it is no safe harbour for this tech giants even in their own countries, which is evidenced by the Yahoo! fall. Competition is pervasive.
Then, there is a reference to ‘our basic freedoms and democratic wellbeing’ which appear to be at stake. Here I would first and foremost mention – when haven’t they been? States are constantly accused of infringing on our freedoms (and quite often for a reason), why don’t we dispose of them? Because they help to organize our society, and it seems to me that what tech companies, and giants in particular, do is bringing this element of organization to our lives.
Yes, organisation has its cost, just as with a state. Tech giants’ power have been growing consistently, especially in terms of collecting your data and shaping your worldview. But isn’t the nature of it the same, and only the scale of it has changed? Newspapers, which Mr Johnson praised that much, are not much more ‘saint’ than platforms that aggregate what the former produce.
Are there threats from the existence of such giants? I would rather call it ‘challenges’.  And overcoming challenges is what we –humanity – are rather good at.