Some people believe that today big technological companies are a serious problem for our world, because they threaten people’s freedom and undermine democracy around us. I completely agree with this statement. There is a danger for our creative society and very often it is disrespectfully for their intellectual property. Also, tech giants collect data without people’s permission and use it in their own interest to increase their profit margin.
Big giants are a bad for community, in a greater degree for creative people. Firstly, there are huge quantities of pirated materials in different digital platforms such as YouTube, Vkontakte, etc. There is a risk challenge for music artists, writers, film makers, computer programs, because they have rights for these materials and often people need to pay for watching or looking at them. Then, if you want to listen a new album which your favorite singer recorded and dropped, you need to pay for it. There is the same situation with a program which you are needed, such as MS Office, ArcGIS. For instance, the cost of using MS Office you need to pay about 150$ per year. Nowadays, using the platform like YouTube or Google you can find it free of charge, therefore it decreases margin profit for creators and violates their copyrights. Moreover, Luke Johnson in his speech mentioned that these tech companies have no respect for intellectual property that why we need to break up them.
Tech giants collect data, control data, manage data without people’s permission and use it for their advantages. Rana Foohar said that they are controlling vast information about people’s life, interests, preferences. For her opinion it undermines the democratic way we should live in the world. The more data from society they receive, the more advertising revenue they create. Tech giants use our personal information to deliver some product to buy, which we really do not need to buy, or suggest reading some fake news that have no connection with reality. Google and Facebook control 75% of all internet news traffic. It means that if users access news online, they get there through Google and Facebook. Therefore, we need more data transparency from technological companies.
In conclusion, big technological corporations are a serious threat for our world and it is time to break up them. They undermine security, people’s freedom and democracy we should live. The government has a responsibility that these companies do not endanger our fundamental life values, so obviously we need to fight for that.