For some several years five famous tech companies have turned out to be sharing the spotlight. Whatever we think about this tendency, the fact is that they are real giants. They are often compared with monopolies, or even called so. According to New York Times, Google has an 88 percent market share in search advertising, Facebook owns 77 percent of mobile social traffic and Amazon has a 74 percent share in the e-book market. But are they real monopolies?
First of all, the head of the Google company Eric Schmidt, as HBS reports, once said: “We welcome any competitors”. Hypothetically everyone can found a company that would be more successful in the future and might compete with Google or Facebook. Even Pinar Akman, the panelist of the Intelligence Squared debate, mentioned that any of these giants might fail like Yahoo did – unless they are able to provide users with good and competitive services. A company that wants to build its capacity should, first, choose a narrow segment which is underestimated by the others so far, get efficient and successfull in this segment and only then increase its market share. That was the way Facebook and Google became leaders as well. And it wasn’t an easy way.
So why should a company be punished for being successful? The main source of efficiency gains is . If a company is big, its marginal costs are minimal so that it can provide good enough services for the best price. Elizabeth Linder said, networks only work to their maximum potential when they are big. I find it absolutely true.
A lot has been also said about data privacy. The other panelist, Rana Foroohar, said that tech services are not free for us, customers, because we pay for using them with our personal data, and we have no idea how much information we are sharing with the companies. This information, as she thinks, is sold to advertisers. But in fact, despite the giants collect plenty of data and use them, they don’t publish them. As an example, Apple often declines the FBI claims to give access to criminals’ Iphones. One more fact, the giants are using our data mostly for researches that makes them work better and sometimes can contribute to social sciences. And the last but not the least, everyone has choice, whether to use this tech and to share his personal data with the world or not.