It’s time to break up the tech Giant.  For a more detailed consideration of the issue I would like to divide my essay in two parts: for and against this decision.
For the right hand, as the first speaker said, the existence of such tech giants as Google, Yahoo and other big network platforms generates the dissemination of information about human genocide, inciting ethnic hatred, etc. Thereby promoting to the people extreme political news, cardinal opinions and views of the leaders, which certainly has a detrimental effect on people’s consciousness. And on this list of shortcomings only begins. Another provision was as follows. The tech Giants create themselves a big bubble filter  which regulates all advertising activities of people, that also affects the human rights privacy. Moreover it develops not only on the USA, but on other countries too. For my opinion, the biggest problem, which was affected by the speaker, was the problem of violation by the tech giants of the monopoly legislation. Taking the maximum of the audience, as much as possible reducing the prices for certain services, such network platforms as Google and Yahoo absorb the smaller ones. Furthermore,  remembering the words of the modern capitalist, Adam Smith, we can see that there are no equal access to date, transparency of pricing and no shared moral framework.
On the other hand, speaking out against the breaking up the tech giants, speaker said, that such network platforms as Google, Yahoo, Facebook and others are not monopolists. Coverage of a large audience is not grounds for recognizing them as monopolists. Also, reducing priced for these or other services, they regulate priced in the general market, making serviced more accessible to people. For example, one network platform spent about 280 billion dollars on free services for people. The main problem of people, who think that the tech giants should be break up is their fear of the big and their fear of unknown.
Also we cannot touch upon the opinion of the third speaker, that the existence of the tech giants is harmful for our society, government finances, business and others. This circumstance is expressed, in his opinion, in violation by such monopolists as Google antitrust law, intellectual property law and other spheres of legislation. Moreover, the third speaker paid particular attention to the fact, that monopolists in network platforms reduce the quality of information in the world, bringing its price to zero. And in the end of his speech, he said, for my opinion the  most important thought, that people become dependent on phones, addicted to social networks, which leads to moral disintegration of society.
In opposition to this position, the fourth speaker said that nowadays network platforms, social networks, phones and other gadgets has a serious impact on peoples mind. But what kind of impact it will be, choose only people themselves. She meant that such global platforms, as Google, Yahoo, Facebook were made for people not only for talking and sharing the photos, but also to discuss the main problems of the world and achieve the results, that will move the society towards development and not to degradation. The network is a mirror of the  world, looking in which we should do our best to make our life better each day.
There were some questions from the lecture hall, that I would like to answer with the speakers. I think that people are not too stupid, as somebody said to spend a lot of time in network talking with others and discussing the world’s problems.  In my opinion, it should be in such way. As I think, if all people decide to fold one’s arms and not be interested in anything like policy, legislation, social problems, respect for human rights, our world will sink and stop the process of the development. Talking about legislation we should always remember that tech giants MUST COMPLY WITH THE LAW and must by any legal means maintain market competition. Also as I see it, there many gaps in legislation on regulation of tech giants, which should be studied by the lawmakers as soon as possible to make the life of people easier, justly and more transparent. I vote against the opinion that its time to break up the tech giant.