There is no doubt that West Coast Giants are on their way to inflict danger to privacy and democracy. Very soon we will face a situation when these monopolies will be so dominant that the only remedy will be to break them up.
First of all, when we are talking about West Coast giants, it is important to clarify what they actually are. They are largest American tech companies such as Apple, Amazon, Google, Facebook and Microsoft, which control the world`s most important tech platforms, from smatrphones to app stores, and can be considered monopolies in their fields. The first argument of why such situation can not be regarded as a healthy one is related to politics. These largest world companies are directly connected with the scandal connected with the Russian manipulation of US elections. Secondly, in case of emerging markets, in accordance with the opinion of Rana Foroohar, in some countries such as Myanmar, they were used to prepare population for genocide. Some politicians think that supporting lifes of Google and Facebook is supporting innovations, but this is a myth, as apart from everything else they are oligopolies meant to suffocate competition.
When it comes to economic aspect, Adam Smith, the father of modern capitalism, was sure that we need three things for markets to work properly: equal access to data, transparency of pricing of what is being exchanged and shared moral framework. The technologies which are used today imply none of them. There is a sharp need to maintain competition to prevent market failure. If we talk about modern situation, many experts assume that `the collective power of Five` managed to control the fortunes of innovative start-ups, they are all locked in intense battles for new markets and technologies.
Is case of social life and life of common people the collection of data about all of us is taking place, and `we have no idea how much data is going out the window`. Thanks to the rise of the smartphones, there`ve been running massive social and psychological experiments on people. Addiction to Utube or Instagram has a huge human cost: tax giants are exploiting user`s poor understanding of software. The numbers given above confirm that the existing five tax giants are nothing but monopolies, and in a democratic society the existence of large centers of private power is dangerous to the continuing vitality of a free people.
Thus, the idea that `A few West Coast tech giants have become a serious threat to our basic freedoms and the democratic wellbeing of all of us` is totally correct. Those giants `are evil, destroy jobs, avoid taxes, lie to regulators, or provide a weapon for Russia`.