I am against this motion and in this essay, I am going to give you my thought about it and try to convince you to take my side.
In the first place we should understand what this motion is about. It consists of 2 parts. On the one hand we have West Coast tech giants - American tech companies: Apple, Amazon, Google, Facebook and Microsoft, they are also called “Big Five”. On the other hand, threat to the vital interests of freedom and democratic wellbeing of all people at the planet.
I decide to structure my essay in the following way: firstly, general view of people for the motion; then my arguments again the motion, showing how erroneous pro-motion arguments and conclude with several real-life examples.
The main argument of people who are for this motion is that this “Big 5” uses data of all users to earn money and influence of people’s world view. Even if they provide free services, they are not free for us, we pay for them with our personal data, which is collected and used for purposes. They influence our life in many spheres. My question is: how have they really deteriorated your life?
I believe that you don’t have answer for this question. Yes, they collect data, but this data is anonymous and usually collected by robots and stores at closed servers. But even if people have access to this data, do you really think employees cares what you google or which sites you visit? I am convinced that they don’t. Let’s think why they collect data. They use it to optimize search tools for you and make your life easier. Do not forget that you agree to share the major part of your data. If you don’t want to share inconsiderable information there are many ways how to do it. It is so fashionable right now to blame everything on names of companies that people reading in the news or heard about, without doing anything to improve your live. So far discussion was mainly about searching capabilities of Google, Amazon and Microsoft. Now let’s talk about social media.
It has been said that social media has great negative influence on our life. Anecdotally, it destroys our personal relation, makes us addictive to Facebook, Instagram and other social media. Moreover, it is a strong source of propaganda. I strongly disagree with it. The major advantage of social media is that simplifies and accelerates communication. Before social media if you wanted to in touch with someone how is far away from you, you used post, later emails. Now you can do it within several seconds. I need to mention that today Facebook and its analogs is no more just a service to get in touch with your friends and relatives. It become a platform where you can meet like-minded people, be heart, pay attention to a problem and solve it. I fancy with latest trends in government – citizens communication. Recently many state agencies open they official pages in Facebook, Instagram where people can write their complaints and agencies can react faster. Now this goes even further. It is enough to post a photo showing problem and tag a relevant agency. Because if you bring to light a problem, increases awareness of it and people demand to solve it. I am convinced that it a strong argument against monopolistic issue of Facebook as networks only work on its maximum potential and bring provide a benefit when they are big. I think it is display of democracy in 21st century.  This system has already showed positive results even in Russia and Kazakhstan. Moreover, it saves tons of paper and makes positive impact on nature and global warming. Greenpeace should have loved this trend.
Now we came to propaganda. Many believe that it is platform for brainwashing. I agree that propaganda exists. Earlier people used books and newspapers to promote one or another point of view. But today this process becomes much more complicated. There is plenty of information and points of view and it difficult to push forward one view. If you are man of sense, you understand it.
To sum up, I hope that I have convinces you that high-tech West-Coast companies work for the benefit of the whole mankind, and if they earn money, it is not a big deal.