Apple, Amazon, Google and Facebook. These companies seem to be familiar practically to every person worldwide. These companies has enabled us with a great amount of different applications and network tools we use every day or even hour lately. These companies are offering most of their state-of-art services for free, but again these companies demand a huge human cost for their products – our personal data.
In the debates of Intelligence-Squared one of the members of the panel «Break-up the tech giants», who were against the motion, claimed that 85% of Great Britain’s ads market was controlled by Google, so the monopoly power there was obvious. Moreover, the speaker pointed out that the tech giants were avoiding tremendous corporate tax paying due to their specific sphere of business. Another opponent of the motion called our private information, that companies often use, “the most valuable commodity we possess”.
On the other hand, the proponents of the motion argued that competition in technology market is not mythical at all, taking Yahoo or Microsoft as examples. Also it was mentioned that such companies enable to create a global platform of communication for people from all the countries, so then the voices and some of dissatisfactions of emerging countries could be heard.
In my view, the tech giants are indeed violating our basic freedoms and democratic rights by demolishing the natural meaning of the word «privacy» in the modern world. First and foremost, all the data, which is collected through your Google searches, YouTube videos, and the history of your web-browser, is collected by the company and then sold to the advertisers, who seeks the needful tool of addressing their products directly to someone, who might be interested. As it was said in the debates: «Citizens have just surrendered their personal data for nothing». Secondly, having the domination in all the info flows in the Internet gives the companies like Google or Facebook a unique opportunity to distort real facts into something else, so literally the ability to control people’s thoughts about various events in the world. The most beloved argument in the Western countries here should be about Russia, hacking the US elections in 2016, but I’d rather point  the occasion, when auto-complete function reveals bias or racism propagated by right wing players and affiliates.
In addition, plenty of original content makers are having their rights violated: although the representatives of Facebook and others are always claiming about struggling with the piratic content in the social networks and YouTube, a lot of it still remains, so their intellectual property is being stolen. For instance, in YouTube one may easily find really a huge amount of piratic records from different concerts or even studio records of some groups. And last, but not least, billions of dollars have been reallocated from creators of music or newspaper publishers to owners of monopoly platforms. The modern economy here works in crooked way, as nowadays it’s not the talented person, but the founders of business platform or application, who are skimming the cram off.
Ultimately, I am strongly convinced that the monopoly powers of top technological companies do have much more cons than pros for the humanity. The growth and innovation in technologies are essential for the development of all humankind, but it is the fair competition, which makes the wheels rolling. So if we make Google sell DoubleClick and Facebook sell Instagram, then far not so great amount of personal data, money and power will be possessed by the only market dominator.