Over a decade, society has been witnessing an ever-increasing growth of top world’s technological companies like Facebook, Google and Netflix. This phenomenon has been largely discussed and people have broken down into two camps: those supporting the idea of tech giants’ breakup and their opponents. The first group primarily highlights the threat such companies impose to key democratic freedoms and economic threat, while the others do believe that Google and others move our society forward thanks to their innovative spirit. So, let us discuss this issue more detailed.
To start with, the negative attitude to tech giants is primarily caused by their size and, consequently, the power it gives to them. As was stated by Rana Foroohar, Google and FB enjoyed a 100 billion ad only revenue, which is more than the GDP of Ukraine, for instance. Therefore, it is frequently stated, that big companies abuse this power. On the other hand, it is clear, that services, produced by tech giants, give us great opportunity for communication and business. However, we can only enjoy them thanks to network effect that allows these companies to grow.
So, do the benefits we get from big giants outweigh the drawbacks and risks we have to face? In my opinion, no.
To start with, tech giants place a great threat to our data security. Whatsapp, most popular messenger, Facebook and Google are free of charge services. Have you ever thought about the way companies get profit from these products? As was stated in the article “Is It Time to break up Google” by JONATHAN TAPLIN, the reason is they capitalize on data  collection of their users. In today’s world, where almost every person with an access to the Internet becomes Facebook or Instagram addicted and spends a lot of hours surfing the web, companies maintaining these platforms get almost full portrait of each of their user: they know what you like, they know what you want to buy, they know where you go and who you meet with. After that, they sell this information to producing companies and ad agencies to let them build their marketing strategy. But, the worst thing that could happen is if terrorists or other criminals get access to this data. In this case, the consequences could be catastrophic. So, 360-degrees data-collection threatens our lives.
Furthermore, technological giants undermine competition and have unbeneficial consequences for economy. These can be noticed in multiple of situations. Firstly, services like Google or Yandex are not sufficiently controlled by the state and a lot of pirate material can be found their. This idea is supported by Luke Johnson, who highlights disrespectful behavior of search engine providers. Secondly, today there is almost no opportunity for a startup even one coming up with a great idea to wean at least few percent of market share from tech giants, as it would be very hard for them to create strong network effect. Finally, tech giants act like true monopolists, having millions of web sites in their hub and setting very high prices for context advertising.
In addition, technological corporations do really undermine our freedom of thought, as they manipulate our opinion. According to Rana Foroohar, social media and largest platforms were involved in Russian manipulation in US election. While this might be a judgmental statement, it is still clear that media today is quite often biased. The difference between television and digital is an opportunity to target certain message for certain people. That means for instance, it is quite easy for interested institutes to reinforce anti-government sentiments with the young people or for advertising companies to create a desire for alcohol or Tabaco with addicted people.
To conclude with, it should be mentioned that technological corporations do produce a lot of services that everyone of us enjoy, yet their detrimental effect on society observed in the risk of data leakage, monopolistic prices, undermined competition and opinion manipulation should be handled with all the responsibility.