In the 21st century of technology accepts an important role in our life. They become the integral link without which the person begins to panic. Today it will be a question of 5 Atlases of IT of the sphere whose products, day by day, improve our life: Amazon, Apple, Microsoft, Facebook, or Google.
What effect is rendered on our life by data of the company? These companies combined billions of people on the services. Convenience and functionality of the services they gave to people boundless opportunities in education, communication, interaction with the world.
By means of search base and search algorithms of Google you can find the answer to any question concerning you in a second. By means of Microsoft people could adjust stable video conference with the whole world. They make to intuitively clear, any segments of the population, use of the computer. Facebook created most numerous "reference book" in which people can communicate with each other where they would not be. Apple created convenient devices for interaction with these services and what you would have each of them in a pocket. Amazon collected the biggest directory of goods in which the person can issue the order with ease and receive it in every spot on the globe. Today these companies went far beyond field of activity in which they originally specialized. They adopt the best each other and implement new services to facilitate and make our life it is more interesting. These companies brought interaction of people with each other to new level. These companies are the first engine of globalization. Today they help people with the poor countries to join this network, to bring them out of an uncertainty whirlpool. They invest in promising start-ups. Move such areas as: robotics, rocket production, medicine, education. They are the civilization engine.
But that into the account not of pleasant aspects which arise behind this width of opportunities. The most topical problem which concerns users from around the world is anonymity. These 5 giants, in a compartment, can know about you more, than your friends and the family. They can know, constantly, where you were and are now. People are afraid that this information can get to the third parties, and it gets. This information gets to advertisers who buy your personality to sell you more goods or to influence your mind by means of advertising banners. Data security of services is not ideal, and they can be cracked at any time and steal these People use coverage of these services to extend false information or to spread unseemly materials. Of course, these companies increase the safety every day, set new rules, delete unseemly sources, but they do it not ideally and, at desire, the person can come across or find this information.
One more problem connected with these companies, this absorption. All successful start-ups which enter the market have risk to be bought, and are otherwise destroyed, these companies. For the governments the threat proceeds from openness of services of data of the companies thanks to what impact on all population of a certain country can be exerted. And they pay not enough taxes (an argument from video).
Can seem that these companies of a powerful and are dangerous, but it not absolutely so. First, they are regulated by legislations of the countries. All their activity is monitored by the governments and if that, can be prohibited. Secondly, they are dangerous for each other as in the world there are new markets for which they combat among themselves. It is impossible to call them monopolists because of this competition of AI at many services it turns out to develop and compete with them. They will continue to improve and advance the world. I do not see the reasons because of which they should be abolished, thereby slowing down progress.