“A few West Coast tech giants have become a serious threat to our basic freedoms and the democratic wellbeing of all of us”. In most cases these are words from people who are totally unprepared to live in the real competitive world due to their personal feebleness. “We have to break up tech giants”. In most cases these are words from people who use Google and Facebook every single day.
I’ve heard two major explanations why we should break up tech giants. First one is about how much influence these corporations have on the whole world. Second is more about them being monopolies in their areas of business. But Pinar Akman, the EU Competition Law Expert, claimed an indisputable thing – none of the tech giants we are talking about are monopolies. We may talk about ‘being close to monopoly’ as long as we want, but still, we have the only right definition of a monopoly – it exists when a specific person or enterprise is the only supplier of a particular commodity. Neither Google, nor Facebook or Amazon is a monopoly. Despite all of their influence and all of their market share. So if we talk de jure about restricting monopolies in particular areas of business, we must not accept assumptions about being close to monopoly or being de facto monopoly. Otherwise all the juristic system should be reconsidered, is that what we need discussing this issue?
Tech market is a market of perfect competition. The only reason a corporate becomes powerful is that they work better than the others. People, who work there, are more talented, more engaged with their job and more qualified and vice versa. Those who talk too much about dishonesty of the market, why wouldn’t you switch from Google to Yahoo? Obviously – because it has a worse interface and less opportunities. Why? Probably, because Google doesn’t let Yahoo continuously grow and become better? No. Simply because Google has more talented coders.
Using the goods of the big five tech has become an inherent part of modern life. Moreover, we use most of them for free. Can you imagine how life would change if we had to pay for googling information? But we don’t have to pay. And everyone has the opportunity to do it, worldwide. That is what makes our epoch informational. Everyone has access to information. “We don’t do it for free, we pay by our data” – claims Rana Foroohar. That’s true. But we all know that our data is being collected every single minute. We all know that it helps these corporates to become even better than they are right now. And they use our data to make search mechanisms or social networks personalized, increasing usability, using machine learning, which is the most advanced and innovative technology.
By the way, all of the above-mentioned corporates publish their terms of service and privacy policy. You can restrict any of your data to be collected. The question is – what else do you even need? Are you concerned about people who don’t read these terms and policies, Mr.(s) Altruist? Whatever. We all are warned about what they do with our data. Moreover, I’ve never heard about forcing someone to use Facebook. Have you ever heard about such a phenomenon? If you don’t want to chat in Facebook – go to the post office. If you don’t want to buy stuff from Amazon – go to the market. If you don’t want to Google stuff – go to the library. Finally, if you don’t like tech corporates which collect your data – create your own one. I unhesitatingly vote against the motion.