Are the Tech Giants positive for our society?
The issue of the tech giants’ profound effect on our community and they help us to have a better life has always aroused heated debates. Some people believe that the companies’ size and influence pose a danger while others claim that the tech giants should be broken up.
From my perspective, the five largest tech companies like Apple, Amazon, Google, Facebook and Microsoft contribute to the world’s progress. Firstly, they do not let to lose yourself in the “Internet’s sea” offering information according to your keen interest. Secondly, the presence of the relevant searching, which Google proposes, is corresponded to your requirements. Finally, the advertisement of large selection of goods.
However, some people, according to the video, reckon that currently the tech giants have so much uncontrolled power. In their view, the tech giants supervise our data, they are aware of all interested realms concerning our life. In addition, such companies deceive us saying that products are free and cheap and we believe them but it is lies. We pay our data for their services.
Personally, I do not agree with the above opinion. I am convinced that these companies are motive powers for technological and mental progress. Furthermore, I do not see anything harmful that the companies know what I am interested in. Besides, they save my time. I have my personal advert and see the goods, which I will be able to buy.
In conclusion, despite other people’s conviction, I still deem that we need such prosperous companies such as Apple, Amazon, Google, Facebook and Microsoft. Nowadays we live in a new digital world and it affords us enormous opportunities to create something, use different apps lightening our work and life, for instance, Google Docs. The most essential fact is that these companies work for charitable causes. They help people and show us the example how you can have tremendous power but for all that do not losing person’s qualities. That is the point.