It goes without saying that such tech giants as Google, Facebook, Amazon, Microsoft and Apple have changed our lives dramatically. The way we interact with each other, think, perceive the reality and even identify ourselves is different due to these companies. Even though the idea of such an influence is considered to be self-evident since the humankind had been doing its best to make sure that technologies and information are everywhere for the last century the extent to which the aforementioned tech giants are allowed to exert their influence is still a matter of a vigorous debate. The question we have been offered to answer today is whether tech giants should be broken up and somehow controlled so that they couldn’t hurt anybody. I take a really firm stance over this issue and I’m strongly against the motion that tech companies damage the society, therefore, their activity must be controlled for “everybody’s sake”.
First of all, I’d like to say that the fact that Google, Facebook or Amazon have been growing at such a fast pace is hardly surprising since it’s natural for technologies to develop fast and eventually take over the market. When I was pursuing my Bachelor’s degree in journalism we were told about the history of American television. It seems like modern tech giants have embraced the pattern of development once set by leading American TV networks. In general, it boiled down to this: a brand new television network appears on the market, offers absolutely new content and, therefore, attracts millions of viewers turning into a TV giant influencing everyone. Such world-famous channels as CNN, ABC and CBS went down that road and they created a range of phenomena that defined the society when they ruled the media market. Just take a closer look at so-called “CNN effect” when TV networks basically shaped the reality by covering the news all over the world for 24 hours 7 days a week. Now we’re witnessing the same with tech giants as Jonathan Taplin showed it in his article “Is it time to break up Google” Google, Apple and Facebook belong to the top of the Fortune 500 list which is unprecedented.
Regarding the alleged “negative” impact tech giants might have on our society I believe it’s reasonable to resort to the video held within Intelligence Squared debate. What I’ve noticed is that the arguments of those who advocated for measures to be taken to control tech companies were quite shallow and weak. Rana Faroohar, for example, made it crystal clear that Russia interfered with the US election by using Facebook and Google, that Brexit happened because social media weren’t controlled and certain villains (perhaps, she was referring to Russians again) managed to post something that pushed British citizens to vote for Brexit. I find such kind of arguments extremely hypocritical and unconvincing. Does she really believe that posting pictures or even “destructive” videos on social media could lead to Donald Trump’s election as the US president or make British people vote to leave the European Union? I don’t think so. In case of Brexit people were just tired of their government not being able to control such burning issues as migration or unemployment and they decided to emphasize that through a democratic procedure.
On the contrary what I find appealing to me when it comes to ideas expressed by the “against” team is that they were supported by real facts and not just some made-up stories causing paranoia. I totally agree with Pinar Akman who said that claiming that tech giants create a monopoly is wrong since there’re thousands of tech start-ups created every day and some of them like Uber or Netflix proved to be extremely successful despite the existing competition on the market. Moreover, the argument presented by Elizabeth Linder corresponds to what I had in mind while thinking this topic through. She mentioned the impact Facebook or any other major social media outlet has on civil society around the world. I do share the same opinion. Thanks to Facebook, for instance, we’re able to hear from those whose voices are suppressed, thus, we learn a lot about human rights violations, oppressive regimes and injustice happening in our world. I think it’s vital for people to hear such stories because they give a motivation to make a positive change in the community and not to take everything we have for granted.
It should also be noted that it’s crucial to distinguish the content and the technology itself while addressing the issue tech giants’ influence. I believe that arguments that Google or Facebook can be misused are only partly true because essentially these companies provide the technology and they can’t check the content all the time and if someone posts something outrageous Facebook employees can’t be blamed for this. They can’t know what one of the billion users is going to post and it wouldn’t make any sense to expect them to know that. They can’t foresee the future, can’t they? Furthermore, tech giants are constantly accused of collecting personal data. Well, let’s just see a bigger picture in this respect. Mark Zuckerberg doesn’t want to know where I live or what I do but I bet CIA and other intelligence services do and they’re the ones to answer why our data is collected without our consent not Facebook employees.
I’d also like to highlight that comparing leading tech companies with powerful energy giants is also ridiculous because they’re different in nature. Honestly, energy companies are only about exploiting our planet’s resources and hurting the environment, whereas, tech companies have always been created by the brightest people ever lived and they keep employing amazingly smart people from different countries. Moreover, they’re engaged in promoting green energy, sustainable development and charity not to mention that they offer higher salaries and better working conditions. The latter point is closely connected with my next argument which touches upon the way how tech giants have changed the working environment everywhere. Once they introduced a more relaxed and innovative model of a working space when people aren’t chained to their desks and they feel free and more comfortable which results in a higher efficiency.
To sum it up, I’d like to say that tech giants haven’t just changed our lives, they’ve revolutionized them. They’ve enabled us to become closer with friends, family, the loved ones. They’ve given thousands of people an opportunity to build successful careers both in terms of money and personal growth. They’ve helped to raise awareness of the challenges our world is currently facing, thus, making a positive difference. They’ve saved a lot of lives by making heartbreaking stories of innocent people public, thus, helping them stay alive. They’ve given a chance to everyone to express his or her viewpoint over burning issues openly and freely which is priceless. Tech giants are part and parcel of our lives now and I truly believe that we benefit from them a lot and that our life is much better when we have them around.