I don`t agree with the motion proposed. I hardy imagine that the biggest companies, so-called «monopolies» are the threat to the freedom and progress.
I totally agree with Ms. Akman, whom I want to rephrase: these giants like Facebook, Amazon and Microsoft etc. are not expected to be the greatest forever. We all know how almost monopolists like Fanny Mae and Freddie Mac ended up in bankruptcy. Yes, it was one of the greatest crises we had ever seen, but, nevertheless, the market did not fall, but began to rise after post-effects.
Secondly, Ms. Linda mentioned how it has been important to create a world network for people to be connected all around the world. Indeed, it is the most important freedom since the people were given the universal suffrage. As she said, we would be able to connect almost the whole world if there were tens of social networks. I would add that some countries like China, Iran and Russia are doing their best to create their own Internet network to have it isolated in case of political emergency. So, these isolationist actions seem to be quite consonant to the other side of arguments, though the reasons and perceptions why they say it are different. Moreover, let`s consider the example Jonathan Taplin offered in his article: how would we call each other over the phone if there was not a common phone net? That is the claim to destroy everything the mankind has created for last 100 years.
Of course, I may have share concerns of Ms. Faroohar that big companies are able to collect so much wealth that it might harm some economic industries. But at the same time, I think that the only actor that might be able to attack and split these companies is the US government. Why it is wrong action? First of all, the global losses might be catastrophic. I am not economist, but I am afraid that such violence can stagger the whole world economics. Second of all, let`s imagine the US government was successful. What then? Who can ever guarantee that there were thousands of start-ups ready to create competitive business. And, after all, the US government may have had such confidence to destroy the giants, why should it abandon to put their hands on small companies? In that case, it`s going to be happen in every country in the world then – the world network, the information technology society would be drastically destroyed. Even Mr. Johnson couldn`t give argue in the debates about what would happen when some actor like state split the giants up (not to mention his books are being sold through Amazon by retailers).
I am also sure that the small number of giants is able to be governed or, better say, to be controlled on the basis of law. Farhad Manjoo reasonably noted that terrorism might be stopped by states through negotiations with big companies, rather than with a hundred of companies, that don`t worry too much about their reputation and, thus, can be easily corrupted by any kind of terrorists, corrupt official or criminals etc.
In conclusion, I have to say: yes, there are several threats due existence such giants and I might be agreeing with any criticism. But I have to note: market and technologies born those giants – technologies and market will bury them. It is not of competence of state, the only actor able to attack them, with its principally ineffective bureaucracy dreaming of control the society and getting taxes more than any company in the world seeks to get profit. So I don`t support the motion to split up the biggest companies existed in the world.