Nowadays, Internet became an inevitable part of life thanks to the most profitable West Coast companies in the world. Some people consider that political right and freedoms of people are under risk due to the existence of these companies. Others think there is no danger in controlling life by those companies. This essay will look at the positive impact of these companies on life of our society through its free choice to live both in political and social environment.
Firstly, giants companies contribute to people in changing totally their life through
integration within the Internet. For example, through social media Facebook minorities from around the world could be united and speak for themselves to be heard. It is Google, Microsoft, in other worlds, global platforms who promote petitions meaning problems regarding health, infrastructure could be solved a hundred times quicker than it was before. Moreover, it is only Google which provides 280 million services in America meaning it cover basic needs of those people, creates additional work to people.
Secondly, West Coast huge tech companies allows different political opinions be distributed around the world. It is social media Facebook, Twitter where different news could be distributed and people could listen to different opinions. For example, before creation of these giants people listen to one source. Therefore, tech giants help people to speak and listen what they want.
Thirdly, it is hardly to argue that it is only tech industry, these West Coast giants
which could thereat people’s basic needs and political decisions. For example, in North Korea where actions of these companies are abandoned before and after existence of tech giants’ freedom of society in all aspects of their life is under question. Moreover, different cults and sects which existed before creation of these giants also are dander to people’s life. In other words, there are other sources of threat to basic freedom and democratic freedom to society and which affect more depends on case to case.
On other hand, some people say that an enormous threat from these Tech companies limiting freedom of people. Firstly, giants providing their products to people not for free but for taking secrete information about people which than could be sold and used against people. Secondly, tech companies affect political choice of men and women. They tell it is Facebook and Google which are responsible for distribution of misleading news , wrong opinions through media. These companies facilitated to results of elections for the US president in 2016. Therefore, these tech companies negatively influence freedom and on democratic opinions of the society.
To sum up, there different views of what kind of influence these tech companies make.  From negative point of view, a plenty of data is owned by these tech companies which could be used against people. From the positive sides, freedom of people’s actions is expanded using products of West Coast giants which is much more than negative fostering.