Nowadays it is very common to see big tech companies that take over big shares of the market. This phenomenon takes place in many countries, but it must be pointed out that there are 5 biggest companies from USA which dominate as providers of IT services all over the world. In particular these companies are Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Google and Microsoft. Altogether they offer the most crucial technologies for modern people which can rarely be altered. The products of these companies are used on daily basis and they are developed in such a way that an ordinary person’s lifestyle is integrated into social networks and cloud technologies. It’s almost inevitable that commercial companies collect information about their clients and in this case it means that the IT giants process huge amounts of data about people’s private life. Therefore, a question arises whether it is a threat for our basic freedoms and democratic rights or not.
I strongly believe that the appearance of tech giants is good for the development of the IT industry and that the risks are not really inadequate. In order to support my point of view I will discuss several statements from the Intelligence Squared, the New York times and the Working Knowledge.
In the intelligence squared debates it was argued that the tech companies must be broke up because they operate as monopolies. However, the defenders of the corporations’ interests have explained that these big companies are driving the business because they become more efficient as they grow but they always confront the risks of competition and it means that their entrepreneurial spirit persists. It must be understood that without development the companies will freeze and they face market risks as well as everybody else.
In The New York Times there have been given an explanation why the Five has developed such a great international influence. It is mentioned that they achieved their dominance as they create huge returns to scale and that they become more useful on condition that the amount of users would grow steadily.
Finally, another strong argument for protecting the big companies’ side is given in the Working Knowledge. Guy Higgins has pointed out that the tech giants work in a legislated and transparent way, so the sphere of their work can be fully comprehended.
To sum up, three main points subject to the motion must be stated. Firstly, there shouldn’t be a fear of unknown menace coming from the companies which have big resources today. They are constantly improving our lives and we can monitor in real time almost all their inner processes as they are public and are regulated by governments. Secondly, the IT sector is the most volatile among all because it involves minimum of real estate and it means that new competitors can occur easily and the US companies can be outrun too. And last but not the least, It would be difficult and inefficient to split these companies, as they are now integrated to achieve the best performance.