To break or not to break sounds rhetorically like to be or not to be.
For the most beginning, I would like to understand what the phrase “break up” actually means. Either that phrase is used to persuade us act against tech giants or it tries just to allude friendly that tech giants are not always good. It’s difficult to get it.
Anyway, in spite of the first or the second meaning of it, I dare state that is really wrong to say on one’s bare word, that it would be good to break up teach giants or not. Because it is absolutely impossible to paddle one size fits all the big tech companies. Why do we need to stop them because of their size? Isn’t it similar in kind to the usual fascism?
Of course, some of them can be harmful it is not a secret, that Google, Windows, Facebook tend to control the world’s most important tech platform like Napoleon tried to control the whole world, but does these companies really spoil our everyday life? We use their products every day and can hardly imagine how to resume our life if they suddenly end up their existing, for the majority of their services we don’t have even to pay, but some of us doesn’t  give up and tries to persuade us to break tech giants up. Isn’t it meanly?
I guess, everything is relative, on the one side, they make our life better. But let’s look at the another side to the coin, where we don’t  have to pay with our money, but we pay with our personal data without even giving agreement for it. So that, if you are often using modern devices are connected to the web, tech giants are already able to know of you much more than your wife. And, of course, they sell it to others for making money. Perhaps, such “bad” companies, like Windows, are killing two birds with one stone with collecting your intimate photos from your computer and making you to pay for their services in the same time.
Is it good or bad? But if they won’t do that, where will they take money for the free services? And where is the guaranty, that another little tech company will never do same?  I think all of them will do that.
Another problem is that they create monopoly, they suppress little tech startups, which can offer a better service but can’t compete. In this way they harm economy, they harm us and we are not able to resist this.
To sum up all the said, tech giants make our live convenient with their new services, but we pay for it with our personal data. They make monopoly.
But is it bad or good? The quantity of different opinions will depend on the quantity of people which opinion is asked here. My opinion is that it is not good to break up all the tech giants, but some of them must change their harmful business strategy for the benefit of the peoples, for the benefit of the States.