It comes as no surprise that for the last ten years the biggest tech companies such as Goggle, Apple, Amazon, Facebook or Microsoft have influenced our society, government and the world itself in a crucial way.  Many hold true that these companies might be frightful to our freedom and democratic wellbeing. The first argument regarding it is that they are too big . These giants play a huge role in our private life as well as our society in a wide level. It goes without saying that for majority of people it is simply impossible to get rid of using all of them. And more than that, they sort of are being asked to do and they kind of know more about us than any corporations in history. They have become more like governments than companies with the amount of money they have, with the kind of power they have over democracy in society.  However the question regarding breaking up these giants may be regarded as absolutely disappointing.  This point of view will be proved by providing several facts prior to coming to a reasoned conclusion.
To begin with, it is felt by many that Over the past decade, Amazon, Apple, Facebook, and Google have aggregated more economic value and influence than nearly any other commercial entity in history. These companies play an essential role in our democracy and stand between us and information. We can safely say that these companies are different than the monopolies that had gone before, for a couple different reasons. First of all, they aspire to encompass everything. Google started off as the company that was going to organize knowledge. As a result, they have branched into building self-driving cars and a life-sciences company. Another example regarding Amazon illustrates the enormous power of the company which allows us to buy everything. They are considered as a movie studio which even might be specialized at organic grocery store now. They want to wake us in the morning and they have their little boxes with their artificial intelligence that we are in conversation with all across the day. Therefore, the argument above leads us to the point that nowadays these things which companies provide us with are simply amazing and make our life better in terms of productivity and efficiency.
Furthermore, it is certainly true that primarily tech giants have a huge impact on people by putting a mirror to the real world. These kinds of company illustrate   the true potential of the network effect and provide people with ideas to make them work. According to Elizabeth Linder, a founder and former head of Facebook’s Politics and Government division for the EMEA region, these new global platform where people can work in a completely different way most of them even don’t understand will definitely change the world since only such types of global community may demonstrate the reality and work to the maximum potential when they are big. In addition, it is blatantly obvious to blame everything on names of these companies that society has heard about. However, these tech giants only reflect the situation which currently happens in our society. If any problems come into existent in such companies, it is highly likely to appear in society. Moreover,  the bigger they are the more people who are connecting  as nations from different backgrounds might realize that even though they are from different countries they have the same problem which all together they can  fix and allow these networks to grow to reach their potential.
Therefore, following the analysis of this burning question regarding breaking up the biggest tech giants I am under no delusion that, even though such company control our data, warp our democratic discourse, and exert increasing dominance over our markets they open up new opportunities for the society, they develop the enormous potential to make our world more optimized, fruitful and sustainable for the future generation. Therefore it might be scary and even discouraging to break the whole system up, finding such companies a serious threat to our basic freedoms.