Few will argue that the last decade marked an entirely new digital age for all of us. We now live in a world where information flows seemingly freely from person to person, travelling at the speed of light, a world where unbelievable amounts of data cross continents and oceans to reach billions of people in mere seconds, a world where people’s lives are tightly embedded into digital space.
People now fully enjoy the benefits this age of information has given us as they engage in all sorts of new and exciting activities: we can find literally anything by typing just one phrase in a search engine, we can watch any video, listen to any music, read any news article or have a conversation with any one of the billions of other citizens of the world. Sure, sometimes we just can’t seem to find any of the good content and the conversations we have are not always civil and respectful, but in general we are really fond of these new opportunities.
What people often fail to notice, however, is whom we should credit for the rise of this new technological age. Modern digital world is made up of many players and it seems very diverse, sometimes even disjointed, but make no mistake, most of the information era achievements are created and controlled by a handful of private companies. These so-called tech giants, Google, Facebook, Apple, Amazon among few others, control a lion’s share of the digital world.
Perhaps it is now the right time to conceive just how big and powerful these flagmen of technology really are and decide, whether their position and strength really threaten us and if so, what should we do about it.
The debate on the topic is quite heated and multi-dimensional, but most of the point can be roughly divided into two groups. One side sees these new-age tech giants as monopolies which try to take control of the digital market and exploit it to their own benefit. These people see tech companies as a threat to healthy economic development and social well-being. This position is articulated by Jonathan Taplin in his article for The New York Times titled “Should we break up Google”. He states that tech giants like Google, Facebook and Amazon have seized almost all of the digital markets (88% in advertising, 77% of mobile social traffic, 74% of e-books, etc.). Had this happened in offline economy, he states, these companies would have been declared monopolies and forced to break up. The tech companies can now compete with some states in their power, as mentioned by Farhad Manjoo, another author for The New York Times.
The critics claim that huge market shares allow tech companies to extract unthinkable profits from their platforms, often stealing it from actual content creators. For example, Youtube, owned by Google, the largest video-hosting website earns billions of dollars from advertising, while people who actually create content featured on this site only get a fraction of the profits. These actions will not go unnoticed by the economy, critics say. The absence of healthy competition will lead to market failure and possible losses for everyone involved.
Secondly, the critics are often concerned with the data these companies operate. Facebook and Google collect innumerable quantities of data from users, often without their acknowledged consent. The corporations now know everything about all of us and they will not hesitate to sell this info to those who bid the highest, says Rana Foroohar, a participant of intelligence squared debate on a similar topic.
Finally, many of the speakers, for example, James Heskett, an author from Harvard Business School, mentioned a controversy surrounding an alleged intervention into 2016 US presidential election. He talked about a foreign attack that was supposedly conducted via social media, like Facebook or Twitter. The authors on this camp state that united social media have have become a powerful tool, almost a weapon that can be used to push political or social agenda onto people, possibly causing instability across the globe.
Ultimately, speakers from this side call for a break up of major tech giants, hoping that it will create a healthier market, benefiting everyone.
The other side of the debate stands against the break up, arguing that the current state of digital markets, imperfect as it may be, is still preferable to break-up.
There are several lines of reasoning the speakers have presented. Some have argued that giant tech companies have become a hub of innovation, a force that drives humanity’s progress. They draw parallels to older tech companies, such as AT&T (also known as the Bell System), which has given us the transistor, the microchip, the solar cell, the microwave, the laser, technological discoveries worthy of eight Nobel Prizes. Today’s tech giants may be just as beneficial, perhaps even more so, their defenders argue.
Huge tech companies of today are also often compared to ‘natural’ monopolies like public service providers or infrastructural companies. The thinking goes: single companies on such market benefit greatly from scaling up, as the costs of operation drop significantly when more people use your services. In the end, ‘natural’ monopolies are able to offer better prices and ease of use for general public.
Moreover, a small number of big companies is ultimately easier to control and account for than a swarm of small businesses. Having a handful of tech giant allows governments and general public to keep an eye on all of their actions and prevent any possible misconduct.
Finally, the defenders of the tech giants suggest we take people’s opinion into account. People vote with their feet, as Elizabeth Linder, a former head of Facebook’s Politics and Government division mentioned, and people love tech giants, as can be seen by an ever-increasing number of users. The speaker suggested that we let people decide for themselves.
The debate keeps raging on, as it clearly doesn’t have a simple solution. The defenders of the tech companies assure us that the powers of free market will sort out any possible problems and we should not interfere in the workings of economy, while the critics of the giants state that huge corporations cannot be trusted to act in a lawful and fair manner.
Personally, I agree with the latter. In my opinion, the raw and uncontrolled capitalism has already shown it’s face in the early 20th century. Corporations, no matter what their source of income is, will tend to amass ever more power and wealth in their hands, leading to misery for everyone not owning them. And the more power such corporations get from modern technologies, the greater the danger they pose.