The influential power of technological advances today is accepted by almost everyone, and barely anyone can deny the effect technologies have on us in various aspects of our lives. The information is distinguished as the fifth and probably the most significant branch of power.  Obviously, those who rule the most used information streams have control over a huge mass of people. That is why such companies as Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple and Microsoft, the so-called Frightful Five, scare many people by the scale of social areas under their control. Whether the idea to break those giants up derives from unreasonable fear and simple jealousy or there are some sensible reasons behind it is a debatable question. From my point of view, all the arguments for the motion don’t stand any critics because the benefits of having the giants the size they currently are or even bigger are obvious.
First of all, let’s look at number one argument to support the motion: “Monopolies have never done any good to society”. That is true in a way.  In his article “Is It Time to Break Up Google?” Jonathan Taplin gave a few pretty convincing examples of how regulating a huge giant company can have a positive impact on the society. He mentioned the company AT&T that was required to spend a fixed percentage of its profit on research and development. As a result many new startups were launched, which pushed the technological progress ahead. It seems that governing the giants and restricting them in certain ways will create positive conditions for other companies to thrive. On the other hand in that very article the author mentions that AT&T company wasn’t any successful in the beginning. At first, the company was split to numerous small companies that provided telephone and communication services independently of each other. Before the companies merged and started working in accordance they hadn’t been efficient at all. So, the scale effect in this particular example means better services for community and lower costs for business owners. This situation can be as well projected to the Great Five, especially considering the fact that the information services they provide have better quality when are executed all together.
I strongly agree with the opinion of Elizabeth Linder who emphasized in her speech that such networks as Facebook, for instance, become as worthy as they are only when they integrate many communication channels and work on a scale effect. Let’s think for a moment how much use such networks bring to the society! It’s hard even to imagine all the communities that have been initiated online and measure the positive change they have done for the world. There are thousands of groups who help and support orphans, elderly and disabled people, the sick and the depressed ones, etc. This in the social layer that is self-regulated, and the self-governance becomes possible thanks to huge platforms like Facebook or Google. If it hadn’t been for the Huge Five, the government would have to take a lot more responsibility to manage social aspects that are now taken off their shoulders and managed online by conscious citizens.
Of course, there is a semblance that the aforementioned companies have become monopolies and now drain money out of small companies and customers. However, if we take a closer look, it may not be quite so. As Pinar Akman noticed, they cannot be considered monopolies because a monopoly is a single seller. More than that, even being the leaders in their segments, the companies still feel the pressure of competition, which a great engine that drives them to produce new products and services. For example, we know that Google is the leader of search engines, Amazon is the number one provider of e-commerce, Facebook is the leading social platform. Looks like they dominate in different niches that don’t intersect, which is not true. For example, Google Maps is a very powerful and widely used navigating tool. However, that does not mean that others fall behind with their navigation technologies. Facebook not so long ago introduced its own maps and GPS system, which calculates the location of IP of each single user and renders them specific news from their area. Also, Facebook can track the places where a user had been before by hashtags and geolocation tags and offer them news from those places. Last year it lunched a service “Report you’re okay” which was a pop-up window with a single button “I am okay” that would appear to users to happened to be in the area of terrorist attack, massacre or any other life-threatening situation. By clicking the button all Facebook friends of the user would receive a notification “Your friend reported he’s okay”. Isn’t that worth allowing huge companies to be as huge as they are to be able to provide such amazing services? Another great example is cloud services provided mostly by Google. By creating an account on Google every used gets assigned to 15Gb of free cloud storage, which is incredible considering the number of Google users. Not every provider can afford that because that means a lot of servers allocated to cloud storages, which require energy, the right temperature etc. to keep them functioning. Keeping servers in data centers costs money, so every 15Gb of free storage isn’t free for Google. Being able to manage this huge infrastructure may make Google a cloud king. Very few people know that Amazon also provides cloud services to clients at a much bigger scale that Google. In fact, over 70% of Amazon revenue comes from the US government and huge corporations that deploy their information systems on Amazon servers.  Will the US government want to break up Amazon down to smaller companies knowing that it would pose threat to its information system architecture? I don’t think so.
All in all, the Frightful Five should be viewed as the Mighty Five which resembles the Titans holding digital society on their shoulders.  The greater the scale on which the companies operate, the cheaper their services are and more obvious the positive impact is. As it was said by Farhad Manjoo, the Five can be governed. He also agrees that one benefit of having five giant companies in charge of today’s tech infrastructure is that they provide convenient focus for addressing society’s problems. As long as they are not scattered as small enterprises, their activity is clear and can be subject to certain audit. Consumers can not only be aware of what they buy, but can also participate in changing the vector of their activity by proposing changes to the government or the companies’ owners directly.