Language is a very complex and dynamic system. English consists of fundamental basis of words which have been existing for centuries, but English is still changing and developing and the new words are appearing. But many of these words don't enter the dictionaries, consequently there is a threat of disappearance. How can we help new words to reach dictionaries? 
Firstly, almost all new words are formed by youth. It can be a subculture or some particular persons with similar hobbies who think up such words as "defriend" which means to remove from friend or "hangry"(to be angry because you are hungry), "adorkable" (you are adorable, but weird, in a dorky way). I want to say that the youth is able to help words to enter dictionaries. Every young man uses the Internet, so specialists in language can create websites or groups where other people will write "undictionary" words with meaning and then scholars will analyze them and add to other words in dictionaries. It is very important linguists not to be afraid that such words as “recombobulation area”, "plutoed" may look funny and unserious. They shouldn't be afraid of novelties. I mean they can ask young people to explain the meaning, try to get used to these words. That's why I think the second important issue is that it there should be some special language meetings where people can discuss words which has already appeared, tell about those words they have just found. From my point of view these meanings ought to include not only professors as Anne Curzan, but also ordinary people. Moreover, I liked the idea of voting on the word of the year. As a result more people can learn the meanings of the words "tweet", "chad”, "hashtag" and these words get accustomed to language and get into a dictionary faster. 
In conclusion, language is changeable, new words and new meaning appear and disappear. It's inevitable and people will have to accept it and not to afraid. We decide how to use the word and their roles in language depends on us.
