How can a word enter dictionaries? It can be added into dictionaries if a word is real. However, what is “real” and how can we define it? Anne Curzan, a language historian, believes that a word becomes real if speakers use it and know what it means. That is why the main way for new words to enter dictionaries is through usage. The speaker pays our attention to words like “impactful”, “nice” (used to mean silly), “LOL”, “YOLO”. The rationale is that dictionaries are compiled by people, so to make word noticed we need to keep using it. This idea especially important if we talk about changes in the meaning. For instance, the word “peruse” was frequently used as “skim”, which was at first considered as a mistake. Later linguists came to the idea that it’s an appropriate meaning due to the frequency. 

Another way is combining words to make up a new word, which will describe new phenomena (object, feeling, etc), which is not reflected in the dictionary. Anne gives us such examples like “hangry”(hungry+angry) and “adorkable” (adorable+ dorky). One more idea that correlates with it is not combining words, but making up a word in its unique way. For instance, “tweet”, “hashtag”, “ multislacking”, “app”, “to google”, “plutoed”, “recombobulation area” “to defriend”. Both cases characterize new things, which appeared due to the flow of time and cannot be changed, because there is no option to offer. It seems unnecessary to add these words, but, according to Anne, words are not about preferences.  Language is a living being, so the transformation is inevitable.

To my mind, all these methods are quite relevant if we talk about 21st century. However, I’d like to suggest one more method, which seems to me quite captivating. Erin McKean, a dictionary editor, mentioned in her video “The joy of lexicography” the fact that many words nowadays are lost in old books and newspapers. Nevertheless, she points out, there are some “undictionary” words should be taken into consideration. The problem is that we need help to analyze all these words, but the further implications would be priceless. We can’t even imagine how many words are hidden.

To sum up, Anne Curzan firmly believes that our actions can influence dictionaries and describes two main ways for words to enter dictionaries: usage and combination. In my opinion, one more way, extensive research through old paper editions, is also possible.
