Report on Herbal Medicines.
This report is aimed to investigate the effectiveness and safety of herbal medicines therapy and treatment. We have gathered information from such sources as:
A scientific survey of 4500 respondents. 2815 have sent us back the completed reports and their opinion.
We have consulted with most respectable of well-known medical journals and experts, gathered opinions from different professionals.

Facts and results
Herbs had been used used in medical purposes by ancient people for thousands of years. The tradition of herbal treatment was also appreciated by antic and medieval healers. 
Herbal medicine use extracts from plants, trees and fruits for medical purposes. The effect always depends on concentration and type of plant from which the medicine was made.
 There are three different herbal medicine traditions in the world, which were developed independently: Chinese, Western and Indian
Herbal medicines can cause different side effects, so patients should be careful. Moreover, medicines can interact badly with each other and other drugs.
Our survey members have admitted herbal medicine to be very effective. More than 55 percent said that they would recommend it for their friends.

Summary
Herbal medicine is considered by professionals and patients as an effective way of treatment. However, it can be harmful and the effect is sometimes unpredictable.

Recommendations
This type of treatment must be used with a great care. It is necessary to consult with a herbalist previously
Moreover, it is absolutely essential to inform your doctor about the fact that you use herbal medicine. It is also better to ask him about the admissibility of such treatment
Sometimes it is very necessary to have a special personal medicine. Professional herbalists are able to make it, paying attention on your personal conditions
Everyone should be very attentive and don’t believe adverts and commercials about herbal medicine. Remember: they want to take your money, but not to cure you! 
