Report on Herbal Medicines.
Introduction
This report will give you a useful information about herbal medicine, whether it has healthy benefits, is effective and not dangerous.
The information was gathered from the following sources:
•	4500 of our members were sent questionnaires on this topic and we were sent back 2815 completed surveys.
•	Were examined variety of articles from well-known medical journals and from the Internet.
Facts and Findings
1. Herbal medicine has its origins in ancient cultures, such as Egyptian, American, Chinese. This kind of treatment involves the medical use of plants to kill diseases or to sustain an immunity.
2. A lot of pharmaceutical drugs are consist of synthesised versions of naturally plants' elements. 
3. In recent years, interest in herbal medicine has increased, leading to a greater scientific interest in the medicinal use of plants. Many international studies have shown that plants are capable of treating disease and improving health, often without any significant side effects.
4. Herbal medicine can return the body to a state of natural balance, so that it can start healing itself. Furthermore different herbs influence on different systems of the body.
5. Many modern medicines have been modeled on, or derived from chemicals found in plants. An example is the heart medication digoxin derived from foxglove.
6. There are many forms in which herbs can be taken, the most common of which is in the form of a liquid that is drunk by the patient—either an herbal tea or a plant extract.
7. Due to surveys its members found herbs very effective for a wide range of illnesses. And 55% of these people would recommend herbal medicine to their friends.
Summary
Herbal medicine is the use of plants to treat disease and enhance wellbeing. Herbal medicine is used to treat such sicknesses as anxiety, arthritis, depression, high blood pressure, insomnia, hormonal imbalances, migraines, skin problems and others. Herbs can act on the body as powerfully as pharmaceutical drugs and need to be treated with care. There can be side effects from some herbs, also they can interact badly with other drugs. Moreover some herbal medicines have a harmful effect on the body. 
Recommendations
1. Do not self-diagnose any health conditions. Any herbal medication should be taken under the supervision of a knowledgeable doctor (herbalist).
2. Never stop taking prescript drugs without the knowledge and approval of your doctor. Always tell your doctor if you are planning to start a course of herbal medicine for your condition. 
3. You should consult with your doctor and make sure the herbal remedy is the correct product for you.
4. Don't believe all the claims you read on the packaging of a herbal product.
