It does not seem like much of a dilemma to me that it if a child gets hungry while in school, that child must be fed so he or she can continue studying, Now, how this might be arranged is a more difficult question, the answer to which, in my opinion, depends greatly on what kind of school we’re talking about.

For a public school, I believe it is quite appropriate for meals to be provided to students by the school itself, especially if it’s not a high school. Junior children have less discipline (and spending money) than seniors, so it’s important that they can be fed independent of whether their parents remembered to pack them lunch or not.

Additionally, some of the people whose children attend a particular public school might be very poor, in which case it is fair that their children should be fed, since the school is financed in part by their tax money, and taxation on contributes to their financial situation more than to those of more financially secure people (it’s one thing to lose 13% of a 500-dollar salary and another to lose 13% of a 800-dollar one).

Then it’s a little different with high schools: many high schools treat their students essentially like adults with spending money, and it’s also assumed that they can prepare their own packed lunches. In this case it’s only polite that the school should provide them with the means to both buy and heat food. A work environment in which there’s no opportunity to take a coffee break woldn’t be considered a good one, so why should a learning environment with the same deficiencies be considered acceptable?

As an aside, some schools have a habit of practically force-feeding their junior children, on the assumption that the little brats will get hungry anyway in a half-hour or so. While this is somewhat understandable, it’s hardly healthy. I think daily meal slips that can be cashed in at any time would be more convenient. With modern technology, we can even bind them to the electronic ID cards most students already use.

So, to summarize: I believe public junior and middle schools should provide their students with free meals. Public high schools should allow students the opportunity to buy them if they aren’t provided.

Private schools are a different matter, since the parents pay money for them already, so they might as well pay for the meals. However, it’s more convenient for the school itself to ensure that its students are fed, since that should, in the case of juniors, ensure that they aren’t disruptive, and in the case of seniors, positively impact their academic performance, which is really important for a private school that has to advertise itself to convince people to pay money for it.

In conclusion: meals for every one or at least potential meals, anyway.
