Nowadays one of the most controversial issues relates to the meal at school. In this essay I am going to examine the question if a healthy meal at school is necessary for learning succesfully from both points of view and try to understand who should provide this food for school children.

On the one side of the argument there are people who say that benefits of healthy meal for children at school outweight its potential disadvantages. The main reason for believing this is that healhy food increases energy, level of concentration and ability to percept new information, and it is scientifically approved. Obviously, it is the kind of skills children need to learn effectively. Then, a healthy meal is very important just to stay healthy and fit.  And heath is one of the most important parts of human well-being.

On the other hand, there are those who maintain the opposite point of view. People may have this opinion because, first of all, most children don't really like healthy meal thinking it's tasteless and prefer something with more calories and better taste. It is also worth pointing that healthy food is in fact more expensive and schools may need a special person to supervise products, dishes and the menu. All this might be very costable. 

Another question is who is responsible for food in schools. It is ofted suggested that the government should take care of providing food in schools all over the country. In this case the menu would be standard and the same for all schools, and that needs less control and less efforts. On the other hand, one could say that it is really important to take in account individual needs and particularities of each region and each school, the food should also vary depending on current season. In addition, when local structures take care of providing food it brings benefits to local producers and farms.

As we have seen, there is no easy answers to this questions. However I tend to believe that food must be provided in schools individually by local structures and it must be healthy, even if children don't usually like this type of food.
