
	"An apple a day keeps a doctor away", states one famous phrase. It seems obvious that good-enough nutririon is an integral part of one's health. But it is also true for mental health and cognitive functioning because human brain consumes a lion's shore of energy produced from food by human body. Therefore it is relevant to pose a question whether pupils need to eat a healthy meal while they are at school.
	In my opinion, such meal is the perfect way to help maintaining a high level of study effectiveness. That is why it is necessary for children at school.
	Firstly, there are plenty of diseases caused by malnutrition described in medical literature, including those which affect neural system. For instance, lack of B12 vitamin in food can influence memory and thinking processes. If demands of glucose by one's brain does not meet consumption of this nutrient from food, he or she can suffer from some cognitive difficulties due to physiological reason.
	Secondly, it is important not to skip meals during the day, doctors day. Given that children spend much time at school nowadays, there is a need in providing them all required meals in order to follow medical advice.
	From the other point of view, it is well-known from psychological experiments by date that emotions are deeply envolved in memory processes. High-quality food can be a trigger for positive emotions to arise and, further, can make memory connections stronger, which is obviously good for education.
	So, it is in a way crucial and, certainly, higly beneficial for effective learning to eat a healthy meal at school. But who is responsible for providing such meal? To my mind, it depends on society standarts and laws of the country where a school is placed at. For example, parents and school administration can solve this problem together in private schools; and there is ususlly a strong demand for schools mostly to provide such meal in modern Russia (parents feel responsible for snacks only usually).
	No matter how this problem is solved, there is one idea which is necessary to keep in mind: it is all about the kids well-being, it is the only goal.
